circulatory endotoxin concentration and cytokine profile in response to exertional-heat stress during a multi-stage ultra-marathon competition . <eos> exertional-heat stress has the potential to disturb intestinal integrity , leading to enhanced permeability of enteric pathogenic micro-organisms and associated clinical manifestations . the study aimed to determine the circulatory endotoxin concentration and cytokine profile of ultra-endurance runners ( uer , n = 19 ) and a control group ( con , n = 12 ) during a five stage 230km ultra-marathon ( mean ± sd : 27h38min ± 3h55min ) conducted in hot and dry environmental conditions ( 30ºc to 40ºc and 31 % to 40 % relative humidity ) . body mass and tympanic temperature were measured , and venous blood samples were taken before ( pre-stage ) and immediately after ( post-stage ) each stage of the ultra-marathon for the analysis of gram-negative bacterial endotoxin , c-reactive protein , cytokine profile ( il-6 , il-1β , tnf-α , ifn-γ , il-10 , and il- 1ra ) , and plasma osmolality . gastrointestinal symptoms and perceptive thermal tolerance rating were also monitored throughout competition . mean exercise-induced body mass loss over the five stages ranged 1.0 % to 2.5 % . pre- and poststage plasma osmolality in uer ranged277 to 282mosmol / kg and 286 to 297 mosmol / kg , respectively . pre-stage concentrations of endotoxin ( peak : 21 % at stage 5 ) , c-reactive protein ( 889 % at stage 3 ) , il-6 ( 152 % at stage 2 ) , il-1β ( 95 % at stage 5 ) , tnf-α ( 168 % at stage 5 ) , ifn-γ ( 102 % at stage 5 ) , il-10 ( 1271 % at stage 3 ) , and il-1ra ( 106 % at stage 5 ) increased as the ultra-marathon progressed in uer ; while no changes in con were observed ( except for il-1β , 71 % at stage 5 ) . pre- to post-stage increases were observed for endotoxin ( peak : 22 % at stage 3 ) , c-reactive protein ( 25 % at stage 1 ) , il-6 ( 238 % at stage 1 ) , il-1β ( 64 % at stage 1 ) , tnf-α ( 101 % at stage 1 ) , ifn-γ ( 39 % at stage 1 ) , il-10 ( 1100 % at stage 1 ) , and il-1ra ( 207 % at stage 1 ) concentrations in uer . multi-stage ultra-marathon competition in the heat resulted in a modest circulatory endotoxaemia accompanied by a pronounced pro-inflammatory cytokinaemia by post-stage 1 , both of which were sustained throughout competition at rest ( pre-stage ) and after stage completion . compensatory anti-inflammatory responses and other external factors ( i.e. , training status , cooling strategies , heat acclimatization , nutrition and hydration ) may have contributed towards limiting the extent of pro-inflammatory responses in the current scenario .
iron bioavailability in iron fortified cereal foods : the contribution of in vitro studies . <eos> iron deficiency anemia is the most common nutritional deficiency in humans . not all dietary ingested iron , heme or non-heme , will be available to absorption and negative imbalance between iron requirements and absorption leads to iron deficiency and / or anemia . the recommended iron values usually are based on the genetic and on diet iron-bioavailability , which can be considered as the principal factor that change among the cultures and influences the distinct levels of recommendation among countries . dietary changes present practical limitations due to be difficult to change food habits . the iron food fortification is considered more cost effective and economically more attractive than iron supplementation . there are many iron compounds available to be used in iron fortification . cereals represent a target food group to iron fortification programs due high consumption and the in vitro studies can be useful to estimate the relative iron bioavailability in large number of products in short time and with a low cost . wheat flour baked into bread or not was the main product tested in in vitro bioavailability studies and ferrous sulfate was the principal iron compound used in the fortification studies . however , iron bioavailability from ferrous sulfate is lower than from other compounds , such fenaedta or ferric pyrophosphate . the variables level of fortification , storage , level of extraction , baking and also the association or not with other chemical compound seems to influence the results obtained .
negative life events have detrimental effects on in-vitro fertlization outcome . <eos> the aim of this study was to investigate the effect of negative life events on in-vitro-fertilization ( ivf ) outcome . depression and negative life events were measured using beck depression inventory ( bdi ) and list of recent events in 83 women attending the ivf clinic of a tertiary research and education hospital with the diagnosis of unexplained infertility between january 2013 and august 2013 . demographic features , stimulation parameters , depression scores , and negative life events of pregnant and non-pregnant participants were compared and the relation between negative life events , depression scores , and ivf outcome was investigated . women who did not achieve a pregnancy experienced more negative life events than women who became pregnant ( 77 . 2 % vs . 23 . 1 % ) ( p > 0.001 ) . the number of patients with moderate-to-severe depression ( bdi scores > 16 ) was higher in the non-pregnant group than pregnant group ( 49 . 1 % vs . 26 . 9 % ) , however the difference was not statistically significant ( p = 0.057 ) . clinical pregnancy showed a significant moderate negative correlation with the number of negative life events ( r = -0 . 513 , p = 0.001 ) , but the correlation between clinical pregnancy and bdi scores was not statistically significant ( r = -0 . 209 , p = 0.059 ) . stressful life events have a negative influence on the quality of life , which eventually affects in ivf outcome , possibly through maladaptive lifestyle behavior .
efficient coupling of an antenna-enhanced nanoled into an integrated inp waveguide . <eos> increasing power consumption in traditional on-chip metal interconnects has made optical links an attractive alternative . however , such a link is currently missing a fast , efficient , nanoscale light-source . coupling nanoscale optical emitters to optical antennas has been shown to greatly increase their spontaneous emission rate and efficiency . such a structure would be an ideal emitter for an on-chip optical link . however , there has never been a demonstration of an antenna-enhanced emitter coupled to a low-loss integrated waveguide . in this letter we demonstrate an optical antenna-enhanced nanoled coupled to an integrated inp waveguide . the nanoleds are comprised of a nanoridge of ingaasp coupled to a gold antenna that exhibits a 36× enhanced rate of spontaneous emission . coupling efficiencies as large as 70 % are demonstrated into an integrated waveguide . directional antennas also demonstrate direction emission down one direction of a waveguide with observed front-to-back ratios as high as 3:1 .
cimidx : prototype for a cloud-based system to support intelligent medical image diagnosis with efficiency . <eos> the internet has greatly enhanced health care , helping patients stay up-to-date on medical issues and general knowledge . many cancer patients use the internet for cancer diagnosis and related information . recently , cloud computing has emerged as a new way of delivering health services but currently , there is no generic and fully automated cloud-based self-management intervention for breast cancer patients , as practical guidelines are lacking . we investigated the prevalence and predictors of cloud use for medical diagnosis among women with breast cancer to gain insight into meaningful usage parameters to evaluate the use of generic , fully automated cloud-based self-intervention , by assessing how breast cancer survivors use a generic self-management model . the goal of this study was implemented and evaluated with a new prototype called `` cimidx '' , based on representative association rules that support the diagnosis of medical images ( mammograms ) . the proposed cloud-based system support intelligent medical image diagnosis ( cimidx ) prototype includes two modules . the first is the design and development of the cimidx training and test cloud services . deployed in the cloud , the prototype can be used for diagnosis and screening mammography by assessing the cancers detected , tumor sizes , histology , and stage of classification accuracy . to analyze the prototype 's classification accuracy , we conducted an experiment with data provided by clients . second , by monitoring cloud server requests , the cimidx usage statistics were recorded for the cloud-based self-intervention groups . we conducted an evaluation of the cimidx cloud service usage , in which browsing functionalities were evaluated from the end-user 's perspective . we performed several experiments to validate the cimidx prototype for breast health issues . the first set of experiments evaluated the diagnostic performance of the cimidx framework . we collected medical information from 150 breast cancer survivors from hospitals and health centers . the cimidx prototype achieved high sensitivity of up to 99 . 29 % , and accuracy of up to 98 % . the second set of experiments evaluated cimidx use for breast health issues , using t tests and pearson chi-square tests to assess differences , and binary logistic regression to estimate the odds ratio ( or ) for the predictors ' use of cimidx . for the prototype usage statistics for the same 150 breast cancer survivors , we interviewed 114 ( 76 . 0 % ) , through self-report questionnaires from cimidx blogs . the frequency of log-ins / person ranged from 0 to 30 , total duration / person from 0 to 1500 minutes ( 25 hours ) . the 114 participants continued logging in to all phases , resulting in an intervention adherence rate of 44 . 3 % ( 95 % ci 33 . 2-55 . 9 ) . the overall performance of the prototype for the good category , reported usefulness of the prototype ( p = . 77 ) , overall satisfaction of the prototype ( p = . 31 ) , ease of navigation ( p = . 89 ) , user friendliness evaluation ( p = . 31 ) , and overall satisfaction ( p = . 31 ) . positive evaluations given by 100 participants via a web-based questionnaire supported our hypothesis . the present study shows that women felt favorably about the use of a generic fully automated cloud-based self- management prototype . the study also demonstrated that the cimidx prototype resulted in the detection of more cancers in screening and diagnosing patients , with an increased accuracy rate .
effects of losartan on expression of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 ( mcp-1 ) in hyperuricemic nephropathy rats . <eos> the monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 ( mcp-1 ) plays an important role in the pathogenesis of progression of renal failure . this is based on the observations done both in various animal models of renal damage and in different types of human renal disease . during the development of non-infectious kidney stones , crystals are formed and deposited on the kidneys and the kidneys are surrounded by monocytes / macrophages . we have proposed that in response to crystal exposure , renal epithelial cells produce chemokines , which attract the monocytes / macrophages to the sites of crystal deposition . in this study , we investigated the expression of mcp-1 protein by sd rats exposed to oxonic acid ( oa ) . our study showed that hyperuricemia accelerates renal progression via a mechanism linked to high mcp-1 which may mediate the inflammation reaction of renal diseases induced by hyperuricemia . losartan may retard the progression of advanced renal dysfunction , and the mechanism was partly due to blocking of renal inflammation induced by the uric acid . because the number of experiments performed here is very few , results must be confirmed by more extensive studies with a larger sample size .
improvement of anti-tumor abilities on human non-small cell lung carcinoma by micellization and cross-linking of n- ( 2-hydroxypropyl ) methacrylamide copolymers . <eos> non-small cell lung carcinoma is one of the most frequently occurred cancers with a very high rate of recurrence . self-assembly n- ( 2-hydroxypropyl ) methacrylamide ( hpma ) micelles and cross-linked micelles were developed to improve antitumor ability of linear hpma copolymer . the characters of hpma micelles were investigated and compared using human non-small cell lung carcinoma 3-d culture model and nude mice xenograft model . cross-linked micelles showed highest cytotoxicity on a549 cell monolayers after a short time treatment in vitro . moreover , both of the two micelles exhibited better in vitro anti-tumor activity on a549 tumor spheroids than linear hpma conjugates especially the cross-linked micelles . on balb / c nude mice bearing a549 xenograft tumors , the cross-linked micelles exhibited the greatest tumor accumulation and the best anti-tumor activity due to the highly improved stabilities and the more pronounced enhanced permeability and retention ( epr ) effect , which were followed by the non-cross-linked micelles . meanwhile , neither the two micelles nor the linear hpma copolymers showed significant toxicity on the main organs of mice while free doxorubicin ( dox ) showed obvious cardiac toxicity . all the results suggested that micellization improved the anti-tumor activity of hpma copolymers on a549 human non-small cell lung carcinoma , furthermore , cross-linked hpma copolymer micelles with ph-sensitivity and biodegradability showed more excellent anti-tumor activity .
novel disease susceptibility factors for fungal necrotrophic pathogens in arabidopsis . <eos> host cells use an intricate signaling system to respond to invasions by pathogenic microorganisms . although several signaling components of disease resistance against necrotrophic fungal pathogens have been identified , our understanding for how molecular components and host processes contribute to plant disease susceptibility is rather sparse . here , we identified four transcription factors ( tfs ) from arabidopsis that limit pathogen spread . arabidopsis mutants defective in any of these tfs displayed increased disease susceptibility to botrytis cinerea and plectosphaerella cucumerina , and a general activation of non-immune host processes that contribute to plant disease susceptibility . transcriptome analyses revealed that the mutants share a common transcriptional signature of 77 up-regulated genes . we characterized several of the up-regulated genes that encode peptides with a secretion signal , which we named provir ( for provirulence ) factors . forward and reverse genetic analyses revealed that many of the provirs are important for disease susceptibility of the host to fungal necrotrophs . the tfs and provirs identified in our work thus represent novel genetic determinants for plant disease susceptibility to necrotrophic fungal pathogens .
working women and the menopause . <eos> women are living longer , working more and retiring later . about 45 % of the over 50-year-old workforce in virtually all forms of employment are women , all of whom will experience the menopause and its symptoms , which in some women will be mild to moderate , whilst in others they may be severe and debilitating . about half of these women will find it somewhat , or fairly difficult , to cope with their work , about half will not be affected and only about 5 % will be severely compromised . poor concentration , tiredness , poor memory , depression , feeling low , lowered confidence , sleepiness and particularly hot flushes are all cited as contributing factors . as with any longstanding health-related condition , the need for support and understanding from line management is crucial and can make a major difference to how a woman will deal with the adverse impact the menopausal symptoms may have on her productivity , her job satisfaction and her efficiency . a number of plausible strategies have been proposed that can be realistically implemented in the workplace and which could certainly make a significant difference . careful thought , planning , consideration and effort may be required but , if instituted , they will , in the final analysis , benefit both employer and employee .
dominant negative rpw8 . 2 fusion proteins reveal the importance of haustorium-oriented protein trafficking for resistance against powdery mildew in arabidopsis . <eos> powdery mildew fungi form feeding structures called haustoria inside epidermal cells of host plants to extract photosynthates for their epiphytic growth and reproduction . the haustorium is encased by an interfacial membrane termed the extrahaustorial membrane ( ehm ) . the atypical resistance protein rpw8 . 2 from arabidopsis is specifically targeted to the ehm where rpw8 . 2 activates haustorium-targeted ( thus broad-spectrum ) resistance against powdery mildew fungi . ehm-specific localization of rpw8 . 2 suggests the existence of an ehm-oriented protein / membrane trafficking pathway during ehm biogenesis . however , the importance of this specific trafficking pathway for host defense has not been evaluated via a genetic approach without affecting other trafficking pathways . here , we report that expression of ehm-oriented , nonfunctional rpw8 . 2 chimeric proteins exerts dominant negative effect over functional rpw8 . 2 and potentially over other ehm-localized defense proteins , thereby compromising both rpw8 . 2-mediated and basal resistance to powdery mildew . thus , our results highlight the importance of the ehm-oriented protein / membrane trafficking pathway for host resistance against haustorium-forming pathogens such as powdery mildew fungi .
fluorescent probes used for detection of hydrogen peroxide under biological conditions . <eos> hydrogen peroxide is a well-established precursor of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species that are known to contribute to oxidative stress - the crucial factor responsible for the course of a wide range of physicochemical processes as well as the genesis of various diseases , such as cancer and neurodegenerative disorders . thus , the development of sensitive and selective methods for the detection and quantitative determination of hydrogen peroxide is of great importance in monitoring the in vivo production of that species and elucidating its biological functions . this review highlights the progress that has been made in the development of fluorescent and luminescent probes ( excluding nanoparticles ) employed to monitor hydrogen peroxide under biological conditions . the attention was focused on probes developed in the last 10 years .
impact of daptomycin resistance on staphylococcus aureus virulence . <eos> daptomycin resistance ( dap ( r ) ) in staphylococcus aureus is associated with mutations in genes that are also implicated in staphylococcal pathogenesis . using a laboratory-derived series of dap exposed strains , we showed a relationship between increasing dap mic and reduced virulence in a galleria mellonella infection model . point mutations in walk and rpoc led to cumulative reductions in virulence and simultaneous increases in dap mic . a point mutation to mprf did not impact on s.aureus virulence ; however deletion of mprf led to virulence attenuation and hyper-susceptibility to dap . to validate our findings in g. mellonella , we confirmed the attenuated virulence of select isolates from the laboratory-derived series using a murine septicaemia model . as a corollary , we showed significant virulence reductions for clinically-derived dap ( r ) isolates compared to their isogenic , dap-susceptible progenitors ( dap ( s ) ) . intriguingly , each clinical dap ( r ) isolate was persistent in vivo . taken together , it appears the genetic correlates underlying daptomycin resistance in s. aureus also alter pathogenicity .
cooperative stabilization of the sir complex provides robust epigenetic memory in a model of sir silencing in saccharomyces cerevisiae . <eos> how alternative chromatin-based regulatory states can be made stable and heritable in order to provide robust epigenetic memory is poorly understood . here , we develop a stochastic model of the silencing system in saccharomyces cerevisiae that incorporates cooperative binding of the repressive sir complex and antisilencing histone modifications , in addition to positive feedback in sir2 recruitment . the model was able to reproduce key features of sir regulation of an hm locus , including heritable bistability , dependence on the silencer elements , and sensitivity to sir dosage . we found that antisilencing methylation of h3k79 by dot1 was not needed to generate these features , but acted to reduce spreading of sir binding , consistent with its proposed role in containment of silencing . in contrast , cooperative inter-nucleosome interactions mediated by the sir complex were critical for concentrating sir binding around the silencers in the absence of barriers , and for providing bistability in sir binding . sir-sir interactions magnify the cooperativity in the sir2-histone deacetylation positive feedback reaction and complete a double-negative feedback circuit involving antisilencing modifications . thus , our modeling underscores the potential importance of cooperative interactions between nucleosome-bound complexes both in the sir system and in other chromatin-based complexes in epigenetic regulation .
circulating melanoma cell subpopulations : their heterogeneity and differential responses to treatment . <eos> metastatic melanoma is a highly heterogeneous tumor ; thus , methods to analyze tumor-derived cells circulating in blood should address this diversity . taking this into account , we analyzed , using multiparametric flow cytometry , the co-expression of the melanoma markers melanoma cell adhesion molecule and melanoma-associated chondroitin sulphate proteoglycan and the tumor-initiating markers atp-binding cassette sub-family b member 5 ( abcb5 ) , cd271 , and receptor activator of nf-κβ ( rank ) in individual circulating tumor cells ( ctcs ) from 40 late-stage ( iii-iv ) and 16 early-stage ( i-ii ) melanoma patients . ctcs were heterogeneous within and between patients , with limited co-expression between the five markers analyzed . analysis of patient matched blood and metastatic tumors revealed that abcb5 and rank subpopulations are more common among ctcs than in the solid tumors , suggesting a preferential selection for these cells in circulation . pairwise comparison of ctc subpopulations longitudinally before and 6-13 weeks after treatment initiation showed that the percentage of rank ( + ) ctcs significantly increased in the patients undergoing targeted therapy ( n = 16 , p < 0.01 ) . moreover , the presence of ⩾5 rank ( + ) ctcs in the blood of patients undergoing targeted therapies was prognostic of shorter progression-free survival ( hazards ratio 8.73 , 95 % confidence interval 1.82-41.75 , p < 0.01 ) . taken together , our results provide evidence of the heterogeneity among ctc subpopulations in melanoma and the differential response of these subpopulations to targeted therapy . journal of investigative dermatology advance online publication , 7 may 2015 ; doi:10 . 1038 / jid . 2015 . 127 .
a drosophila model of epidermolysis bullosa simplex . <eos> the blistering skin disorder epidermolysis bullosa simplex ( ebs ) results from dominant mutations in keratin 5 ( k5 ) or keratin 14 ( k14 ) genes , encoding the intermediate filament ( if ) network of basal epidermal keratinocytes . the mechanisms governing keratin network formation and collapse due to ebs mutations remain incompletely understood . drosophila lacks cytoplasmic ifs , providing a 'null ' environment to examine the formation of keratin networks and determine mechanisms by which mutant keratins cause pathology . here , we report that ubiquitous co-expression of transgenes encoding wild-type human k14 and k5 resulted in the formation of extensive keratin networks in drosophila epithelial and non-epithelial tissues , causing no overt phenotype . similar to mammalian cells , treatment of transgenic fly tissues with phosphatase inhibitors caused keratin network collapse , validating drosophila as a genetic model system to investigate keratin dynamics . co-expression of k5 and a k14 ( r125c ) mutant that causes the most severe form of ebs resulted in widespread formation of ebs-like cytoplasmic keratin aggregates in epithelial and non-epithelial fly tissues . expression of k14 ( r125c ) / k5 caused semi-lethality ; adult survivors developed wing blisters and were flightless due to a lack of intercellular adhesion during wing heart development . this drosophila model of ebs is valuable for the identification of pathways altered by mutant keratins and for the development of ebs therapies . journal of investigative dermatology advance online publication , 7 may 2015 ; doi:10 . 1038 / jid . 2015 . 129 .
correlation between reversal of dna methylation and clinical symptoms in psoriatic epidermis following narrow-band uvb phototherapy . <eos> epigenetic modifications by dna methylation are associated with a wide range of diseases . previous studies in psoriasis have concentrated on epigenetic changes in immune cells or in total skin biopsies that include stromal-associated changes . in order to improve our understanding of the role of dna methylation in psoriasis , we sought to obtain a comprehensive dna methylation signature specific for the epidermal component of psoriasis and to analyze methylation changes during therapy . genome-wide dna methylation profiling of epidermal cells from 12 patients undergoing narrow-band uvb phototherapy and 12 corresponding healthy controls revealed a distinct dna methylation pattern in psoriasis compared with controls . a total of 3,665 methylation variable positions ( mvps ) were identified with an overall hypomethylation in psoriasis patient samples . dna methylation pattern was reversed at the end of phototherapy in patients showing excellent clinical improvement . only 7 % of phototherapy-affected mvps ( 150 out of 2,108 ) correlate with nearby gene expression . enrichment of mvps in enhancers indicates tissue-specific modulation of the transcriptional regulatory machinery in psoriasis . our study identified key epigenetic events associated with psoriasis pathogenesis and helps understand the dynamic dna methylation landscape in the human genome . journal of investigative dermatology advance online publication , 30 april 2015 ; doi:10 . 1038 / jid . 2015 . 128 .
structural characterization , technological functionality and physiological aspects of fungal β-d-glucans : a review . <eos> β-d-glucans are a ( 1→3 ) -linked glucose polymer with ( 1→6 ) -linked side chains and a major component of fungal cell walls . they exhibit structural integrity to the fungal cell wall . additionally , β-glucans are widely used as food adjuvant in food and pharmaceutical industries because of their physico-chemical properties . several studies focus on different isolation process of ( 1→3 ) ( 1→6 ) -β-glucan which could be affect the physico-chemical and functional properties of β-glucan such as chemical composition , solubility , viscosity , hydration properties and oil binding capacity . immunological activity is one of the most important properties of β-glucans . thus , they are effectives in inhibiting cancer cell growth and metastasis and preventing bacterial infection . in humans , β-glucans reduce blood cholesterol , improve glucose absorption by body cells and so help wound healing . this review described the prebiotic potentiality of fungal β-d-glucans with the objective to detail the methodologies applied for their extraction , their structure and their techno-functional properties and finally their biological effects .
assessing associations between the aurka-hmmr-tpx2-tubg1 functional module and breast cancer risk in brca1 / 2 mutation carriers . <eos> while interplay between brca1 and aurka-rhamm-tpx2-tubg1 regulates mammary epithelial polarization , common genetic variation in hmmr ( gene product rhamm ) may be associated with risk of breast cancer in brca1 mutation carriers . following on these observations , we further assessed the link between the aurka-hmmr-tpx2-tubg1 functional module and risk of breast cancer in brca1 or brca2 mutation carriers . forty-one single nucleotide polymorphisms ( snps ) were genotyped in 15,252 brca1 and 8,211 brca2 mutation carriers and subsequently analyzed using a retrospective likelihood approach . the association of hmmr rs299290 with breast cancer risk in brca1 mutation carriers was confirmed : per-allele hazard ratio ( hr ) = 1.10 , 95 % confidence interval ( ci ) 1.04-1.15 , p = 1.9 x 10 ( -4 ) ( false discovery rate ( fdr ) -adjusted p = 0.043 ) . variation in cstf1 , located next to aurka , was also found to be associated with breast cancer risk in brca2 mutation carriers : rs2426618 per-allele hr = 1.10 , 95 % ci 1.03-1.16 , p = 0.005 ( fdr-adjusted p = 0.045 ) . assessment of pairwise interactions provided suggestions ( fdr-adjusted pinteraction values > 0.05 ) for deviations from the multiplicative model for rs299290 and cstf1 rs6064391 , and rs299290 and tubg1 rs11649877 in both brca1 and brca2 mutation carriers . following these suggestions , the expression of hmmr and aurka or tubg1 in sporadic breast tumors was found to potentially interact , influencing patients ' survival . together , the results of this study support the hypothesis of a causative link between altered function of aurka-hmmr-tpx2-tubg1 and breast carcinogenesis in brca1 / 2 mutation carriers .
isolation and screening of endophytes from the rhizomes of some zingiberaceae plants for l-asparaginase production . <eos> endophytes are described as microorganisms that colonize the internal tissues of healthy plants without causing any disease . endophytes isolated from medicinal plants have been attracting considerable attention due to their high biodiversity , and predicted potential to produce a plethora of novel compounds . in the current study , an attempt was made to isolate endophytes from rhizomes of five medicinal plants of zingiberaceae family , and to screen the endophytes for l-asparaginase activity . a total of fifty endophytes ( fourteen bacteria , twenty two actinomycetes and fourteen fungi ) were isolated from alpinia galanga , curcuma amada , curcuma longa , hedychium coronarium and zingiber officinale ; of them , thirty one endophytes evidenced positive for l-asparaginase production . all the l-asparaginase-positive isolates showed l-asparaginase activity in the range of 54 . 17 - 155 . 93 u / ml in unoptimized medium . an endophytic fungus isolated from curcuma amada , identified as talaromyces pinophilus was used for further experiments involving studies on the effect of certain nutritional and non-nutritional factors on l-asparaginase production in submerged fermentation . talaromyces pinophilus initially gave an enzyme activity of 108 . 95 u / ml , but gradually reduced to 80 u / ml due to strain degeneration . perhaps , this is the first report ever , on the production of l-asparaginase from endophytes isolated from medicinal plants of zingiberaceae family .
planning mediates between self-efficacy and physical activity among motivated young adults . <eos> often , motivation to be physically active is a necessary precondition of action , but still does not suffice to initiate the target behavior . instead , motivation needs to be translated into action by a self-regulatory process . self-efficacy and planning are considered to be useful constructs that help to facilitate such translations . the aim is to examine the roles of motivation , planning , and self-efficacy as well as the mechanisms that operate in the change of physical activity levels . in a longitudinal observation study with 249 young adults , self-efficacy , planning , motivation , and physical activity were assessed at two points in time , three months apart . planning served as a mediator between self-efficacy and physical activity , controlling for baseline activity . in addition to this indirect effect , a moderator effect was found between self-efficacy and stages of change on planning . the mediation operated only in motivated , but not in unmotivated students . only when people are motivated to become more active , a mediation from self-efficacy via planning to physical activity seems to be likely .
herbal and plant therapy in patients with inflammatory bowel disease . <eos> the use of herbal therapy in inflammatory bowel disease ( ibd ) is increasing worldwide . the aim of this study was to review the literature on the efficacy of herbal therapy in ibd patients . studies on herbal therapy for ibd published in medline and embase were reviewed , and response to treatment and remission rates were recorded . although the number of the relevant clinical studies is relatively small , it can be assumed that the efficacy of herbal therapies in ibd is promising . the most important clinical trials conducted so far refer to the use of mastic gum , tormentil extracts , wormwood herb , aloe vera , triticum aestivum , germinated barley foodstuff , and boswellia serrata . in ulcerative colitis , aloe vera gel , triticum aestivum , andrographis paniculata extract and topical xilei-san were superior to placebo in inducing remission or clinical response , and curcumin was superior to placebo in maintaining remission ; boswellia serrata gum resin and plantago ovata seeds were as effective as mesalazine , whereas oenothera biennis had similar relapse rates as ω-3 fatty acids in the treatment of ulcerative colitis . in crohn 's disease , mastic gum , artemisia absinthium , and tripterygium wilfordii were superior to placebo in inducing remission and preventing clinical postoperative recurrence , respectively . herbal therapies exert their therapeutic benefit by different mechanisms including immune regulation , antioxidant activity , inhibition of leukotriene b4 and nuclear factor-kappa b , and antiplatelet activity . large , double-blind clinical studies assessing the most commonly used natural substances should urgently be conducted .
short-term variation in occupational exposure to air contaminants . <eos> many industrial workers are exposed to air contaminants . a significant proportion of this exposure is found to occur as short peaks , a fact that has received limited attention in the literature . the present study focuses on short-term variation in air contaminant exposure measured at the level of seconds , linking exposure peaks to typical work situations in selected swedish industries . the video exposure monitoring method was used to characterize this variation . ten different videos were analyzed , from recordings varying in length between 15 and 34 minutes . cumulative exposure for sampling intervals ranked from high to low , relative to the total exposure was calculated as a function of time . measures of exposure variation included geometric standard deviation and maximum exposure divided by arithmetic mean . the results show that the characteristics of the variation differ between industrial situations . samples from the stone , wood , and pharmaceutical industries generated the highest variation , implying that exposure peaks of short duration explain a large proportion of the total exposure . it can be concluded that video monitoring of exposure , combined with calculation of exposure variation as percentage of time accounting for given percentages of exposure , can help to reduce exposure to air contaminants in industrial situations by introducing more targeted control measures .
effect of high-pressure co2 processing on bacterial spores . <eos> high-pressure co2 ( hpcd ) is a non-thermal technology that can effectively inactivate the vegetative forms of pathogenic and spoilage bacteria , yeasts , and molds at pressures less than 30 mpa and temperatures in the range of 20≡c to 40≡c . however , hpcd alone at moderate temperatures ( 20-40≡c ) is often insufficient to obtain a substantial reduction in bacterial spore counts because their structures are more complex than those of vegetative cells . in this review , we first thoroughly summarized and discussed the inactivation effect of hpcd treatment on bacterial spores . we then presented and discussed the kinetics by which bacterial spores are inactivated by hpcd treatment . we also summarized hypotheses drawn by different researchers to explain the mechanisms of spore inactivation by hpcd treatment . we then summarized the current research status and future challenges of spore inactivation by hpcd treatment .
hepatitis b immunization in healthcare workers . <eos> healthcare workers ( hcws ) are at high risk for hepatitis b virus ( hbv ) infection . the aim of the study was to evaluate hbv immunization status and anti-hbs titer among hcws . antihbs titer was prospectively examined in all vaccinated of the 464 hcws enrolled . a comparison was done between two groups who had received vaccination within or beyond 5 years ( group a > 5 years , group b < 5 years ) and also between those who received a booster dose , group i ( < 1 year ) and group ii ( > 1 year ) . 49 . 6 % hcws were vaccinated , 46 . 1 % were unvaccinated , and 4.3 % were partially vaccinated . among hcws , doctors had the highest vaccination rate of 92 . 5 % , followed by medical students ( 62 . 4 % ) , nursing staff ( 41 . 6 % ) , technical staff ( 24 . 2 % ) , administrative staff ( 12 . 1 % ) , nursing students ( 8.5 % ) , and grade iv / laundry staff ( 0 % ) . of the vaccinated hcws , 30 % had anti-hbs titer < 10 miu / ml , 10 . 8 % between 10-100 miu / ml , and 59 . 2 % > 100 miu / ml . mean anti-hbs titer between groups a and b was 334 . 8 and 649 . 2 miu / ml , respectively ( p < 0.05 ) ; mean anti-hbs titer between groups i and ii was 1742 . 7 and 629 . 2 miu , respectively ( p < 0.002 ) .a significant proportion of hcws is unvaccinated . a fair proportion of fully vaccinated hcws can have low titers to protect them against hbv infection . measuring anti-hbs titer , administering a booster dose , and offering general screening for hbs antigen should be made compulsory for hcws .
attitudes of greek drivers with focus on mobile phone use while driving . <eos> this article investigates the attitudes and behavior of greek drivers with specific focus on mobile phone use while driving . the research is based on the data of the pan-european sartre 4 survey , which was conducted on a representative sample of greek drivers in 2011 . analysis of the drivers ' behavior was carried out by the statistical methods of factor and cluster analysis . according to the results of factor analysis , greek drivers ' responses in the selected questions were summarized into 4 factors , describing road behavior and accident involvement probability as well as their views on issues concerning other drivers ' road behaviors , fatigued driving , enforcement of road safety , and mobile phone use while driving . the results of cluster analysis indicated 5 different groups of greek drivers-the moderate , the optimistic , the conservative , the risky , and the reasonably cautious-and the characteristics of each group where identified . these results may be useful for the appropriate design of targeted road safety campaigns and other countermeasures .
diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging of trigeminal nerves in relapsing herpetic keratouveitis . <eos> corneal hypoesthesia is the landmark of hsv and vzv keratitis and can lead to neurotrophic keratitis . diffusion tensor imaging ( dti ) is a new magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) derived technique , which offers possibilities to study axonal architecture . we aimed at assessing the potential impact of recurrent hsv or vzv-related keratitis on the axonal architecture of trigeminal nerves using dti . prospective non-interventional study . twelve patients and 24 controls . dti using mri of the trigeminal fibers and corneal esthesiometry using the cochet-bonnet esthesiometer were acquired for patients affected by unilateral and recurrent hsv or vzv-related keratitis ( 3 months after the last corneal inflammatory event ) , and control subjects with no history of ocular or neuronal disease affecting the trigeminal pathways . fractional anisotropy ( fa ) and apparent diffusion coefficient ( adc ) were compared between the 2 eyes of both patients and controls , and correlated with corneal esthesiometry . fa was lower in the trigeminal fibers ipsilateral to the affected eye compared to the non-affected side ( 0.39±0.02 versus 0.46±0.04 , p = 0.03 ) . this difference was more important than the intra-individual variability observed in controls . concomitantly , the asymmetry in adc results was significantly correlated with the loss of corneal sensitivity in the affected eye . corneal hypoesthesia related to hsv and vzv keratitis is associated with persistent modifications in the architecture and functionality of the trigeminal fibers . these results add further explanation to the pathogenesis of hsv and vzv-induced neurotrophic keratitis , which may occur despite an apparent quiescence of the disease .
structures of ras superfamily effector complexes : what have we learnt in two decades ? <eos> the ras superfamily small g proteins are master regulators of a diverse range of cellular processes and act via downstream effector molecules . the first structure of a small g protein-effector complex , that of rap1a with c-raf1 , was published 20 years ago . since then , the structures of more than 60 small g proteins in complex with their effectors have been published . these effectors utilize a diverse array of structural motifs to interact with the g protein fold , which we have divided into four structural classes : intermolecular β-sheets , helical pairs , other interactions , and pleckstrin homology ( ph ) domains . these classes and their representative structures are discussed and a contact analysis of the interactions is presented , which highlights the common effector-binding regions between and within the small g protein families .
morphological and proteomic analyses reveal that unsaturated guluronate oligosaccharide modulates multiple functional pathways in murine macrophage raw264 . 7 cells . <eos> alginate is a natural polysaccharide extracted from various species of marine brown algae . alginate-derived guluronate oligosaccharide ( gos ) obtained by enzymatic depolymerization has various pharmacological functions . previous studies have demonstrated that gos can trigger the production of inducible nitric oxide synthase ( inos ) / nitric oxide ( no ) , reactive oxygen species ( ros ) and tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) -α by macrophages and that it is involved in the nuclear factor ( nf ) -κb and mitogen-activated protein ( map ) kinase signaling pathways . to expand upon the current knowledge regarding the molecular mechanisms associated with the gos-induced immune response in macrophages , comparative proteomic analysis was employed together with two-dimensional electrophoresis ( 2-de ) , matrix-assisted laser desorption / ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry ( maldi-tof / tof ms ) and western blot verification . proteins showing significant differences in expression in gos-treated cells were categorized into multiple functional pathways , including the nf-κb signaling pathway and pathways involved in inflammation , antioxidant activity , glycolysis , cytoskeletal processes and translational elongation . moreover , gos-stimulated changes in the morphologies and actin cytoskeleton organization of raw264 . 7 cells were also investigated as possible adaptations to gos . this study is the first to reveal gos as a promising agent that can modulate the proper balance between the pro- and anti-inflammatory immune responses , and it provides new insights into pharmaceutical applications of polysaccharides .
a mobile cloud-based parkinson 's disease assessment system for home-based monitoring . <eos> parkinson 's disease ( pd ) is the most prevalent movement disorder of the central nervous system , and affects more than 6.3 million people in the world . the characteristic motor features include tremor , bradykinesia , rigidity , and impaired postural stability . current therapy based on augmentation or replacement of dopamine is designed to improve patients ' motor performance but often leads to levodopa-induced adverse effects , such as dyskinesia and motor fluctuation . clinicians must regularly monitor patients in order to identify these effects and other declines in motor function as soon as possible . current clinical assessment for parkinson 's is subjective and mostly conducted by brief observations made during patient visits . changes in patients ' motor function between visits are hard to track and clinicians are not able to make the most informed decisions about the course of therapy without frequent visits . frequent clinic visits increase the physical and economic burden on patients and their families . in this project , we sought to design , develop , and evaluate a prototype mobile cloud-based mhealth app , `` pd dr '' , which collects quantitative and objective information about pd and would enable home-based assessment and monitoring of major pd symptoms . we designed and developed a mobile app on the android platform to collect pd-related motion data using the smartphone 3d accelerometer and to send the data to a cloud service for storage , data processing , and pd symptoms severity estimation . to evaluate this system , data from the system were collected from 40 patients with pd and compared with experts ' rating on standardized rating scales . the evaluation showed that pd dr could effectively capture important motion features that differentiate pd severity and identify critical symptoms . for hand resting tremor detection , the sensitivity was . 77 and accuracy was . 82 . for gait difficulty detection , the sensitivity was . 89 and accuracy was . 81 . in pd severity estimation , the captured motion features also demonstrated strong correlation with pd severity stage , hand resting tremor severity , and gait difficulty . the system is simple to use , user friendly , and economically affordable . the key contribution of this study was building a mobile pd assessment and monitoring system to extend current pd assessment based in the clinic setting to the home-based environment . the results of this study proved feasibility and a promising future for utilizing mobile technology in pd management .
high-performance inkjet-printed four-terminal microelectromechanical relays and inverters . <eos> we report the first demonstration of inkjet-printed 4-terminal microelectromechanical ( mem ) relays and inverters with hyper-abrupt switching that exhibit excellent electrical and mechanical characteristics . this first implementation of a printed 4-terminal device is critically important , since it allows for the realization of full complementary logic functions . the floated fourth terminal ( body electrode ) , which allows the gate switching voltage to be adjusted , is bonded to movable channel beams via a printed epoxy layer in a planar structure , which can move downward together via the electrostatic force between the gate electrodes and body such that the channel can also actuate downward and touch the drain electrode . because the body , channel , and drain electrodes are completely electrically separated , no detectable leakage or electrical interference between the electrodes is observed . the printed mem relay exhibited an on-state resistance of only 3.48 ω , immeasurable off-state leakage , subthreshold swing < 1 mv / dec , and a stable operation over 10 ( 4 ) cycles with a switching delay of 47 μs , and the relay inverter exhibits abrupt transitions between on / off states . the operation of the printed 4-terminal mem relay was also verified against the results of a 3-dimensional ( 3d ) finite element simulation .
effectiveness of step therapy policies for specialty pharmaceuticals in immune disorders . <eos> to assess the effectiveness of managed care plans that limited access to infusion biologics via a step therapy policy . this was a retrospective cohort study using symphony health solutions claims databases that included payer , prescription ( rx ) , diagnosis ( dx ) and procedure ( px ) information with unique anonymized patient identifiers . the percentage of patients with claims for infusion and subcutaneous ( sq ) biologics were evaluated across three increasingly restrictive cohorts : ( 1 ) patients in step therapy plans versus all others in the database ( population ) , ( 2 ) patients in step therapy plans versus patients that were members of plans that were roughly matched ( matched ) and ( 3 ) a subsample of patients that were members of step therapy plans that had sufficient data for a pre / post analysis ( pre / post ) . the population analysis comparison showed 5.1 % fewer patients ( p < 0.0001 ) with claims for infusion biologics among step therapy plans than among the overall plans . the more controlled matched and pre / post analyses showed a greater percentage of patients with claims for intravenous products in the plans with step therapy policies versus plans without step therapy policies , differences of + 7.0 % ( p < 0.0001 ) and + 2.8 % ( p = 0.0522 ) , respectively . policies designed to limit utilization of infusion biologics showed equivocal results . in the near term , the intended effects of implementing step therapy policies may be limited by relatively small numbers of patients that are affected relative to the total number of users .
omega 3 polyunsaturated fatty acids and the treatment of depression . <eos> depression is a common , recurrent , and debilitating illness that has become more prevalent over the past 100 years . this report reviews the aetiology and pathophysiology of depression , and explores the role of omega 3 polyunsaturated fatty acids ( n-3 pufa ) as a possible treatment . in seeking to understand depression , genetic factors and environmental influences have been extensively investigated . research has led to several hypotheses for the pathophysiological basis of depression but a definitive pathogenic mechanism , or group thereof , has hitherto remained equivocal . to date , treatment has been based on the monoamine hypothesis and hence , selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( ssri ) have been the most widely used class of medication . in the last decade , there has been considerable interest in n-3 pufas and their role in depression . these fatty acids are critical for development and function of the central nervous system . increasing evidence from epidemiological , laboratory , and randomised placebo-controlled trials suggests deficiency of dietary n-3 pufas may contribute to development of mood disorders , and supplementation with n-3 pufas may provide a new treatment option . conclusions based on systematic reviews and meta-analyses of published trials to date vary . research into the effects of n-3 pufas on depressed mood is limited . furthermore , results from such have led to conflicting conclusions regarding the efficacy of n-3 pufas in affecting reduction in symptoms of depression . pufas are generally well tolerated by adults and children although mild gastrointestinal effects are reported . there is mounting evidence to suggest that n-3 pufas play a role in depression and deserve greater research efforts .
a comparison of health outcomes in older versus younger adults following a road traffic crash injury : a cohort study . <eos> given the aging demographics of most developed countries , understanding the public health impact of mild / moderate road traffic crash injuries in older adults is important . we aimed to determine whether health outcomes ( pain severity and quality of life measures ) over 24 months differ significantly between older ( 65 + ) and younger adults ( 18-64 ) . prospective cohort study of 364 , 284 and 252 participants with mild / moderate injury following a vehicle collision at baseline , 12 and 24 months , respectively . a telephone-administered questionnaire obtained information on socio-economic , pre- and post-injury psychological and heath characteristics . at baseline , there were 55 ( 15 . 1 % ) and 309 ( 84 . 9 % ) participants aged ≥65 and 18-64 years , respectively . at 12- and 24-month follow-up , older compared to younger participants who had sustained a mild / moderate musculoskeletal injury had lower physical functioning ( 3.9-units lower short form-12 physical composite score , multivariable-adjusted p = 0.03 at both examinations ) . after multivariable adjustment , older ( n = 45 ) versus younger ( n = 207 ) participants had lower self-perceived health status ( 8.1-units lower european quality of life-5 dimensions visual acuity scale scores at 24 months , p = 0.03 ) , 24 months later . older compared to younger participants who sustained a mild / moderate injury following a road-traffic crash demonstrated poorer physical functioning and general health at 24 months .
the clinical significance of endometrial fluid collection in asymptomatic postmenopausal women . <eos> objective this study assessed the clinical significance of endometrial fluid collection ( efc ) in asymptomatic postmenopausal women . materials and methods a total of 564 postmenopausal females were enrolled into this retrospective study , of whom 141 , with efc , comprised the study group ; the remaining 423 postmenopausal women ( the three consecutive patients ) who had been admitted to the menopause outpatient clinic for their routine annual check formed the control group . data , including age , gravidity , parity , body mass index , hypertension , diabetes mellitus , menopause duration , endometrial thickness and histopathological endometrium results , were compared between groups using the spss for windows software package ( version 15 . 0 ; spss inc . , chicago , il , usa ) . results there were no significant group differences in gravidity , parity , body mass index , rates of hypertension and diabetes mellitus , endometrial thickness or histopathological endometrium results . however , there were group differences in age ( 62 . 0 ± 7.6 vs . 57 . 2 ± 8.9 years , p < 0.001 ) and menopause duration ( 13 . 4 ± 7.8 vs . 7.9 ± 5.4 years , p < 0.001 ) . conclusion the results indicate that efc in asymptomatic postmenopausal women is a benign condition , influenced by older age and commensurately longer menopause duration due to a lack of hormonal stimulation . the presence of efc by itself does not affect the decision to provide further evaluation ; that is determined by the presence of confirmed risk factors ( e.g. thickened endometrial stripe ) . however , further studies are needed to assess any long-term prognostic impact of this finding .
maximum principal strain as a criterion for prediction of orthodontic mini-implants failure in subject-specific finite element models . <eos> to investigate the most reliable stress or strain parameters in subject-specific finite element ( fe ) models to predict success or failure of orthodontic mini-implants ( omis ) . subject-specific fe analysis was applied to 28 omis used for anchorage . each model was developed using two computed tomography data sets , the first taken before omi placement and the second taken immediately after placement . of the 28 omis , 6 failed during the first 5 months , and 22 were successful . the bone compartment was divided into four zones in the fe models , and peak stress and strain parameters were calculated for each . logistic regression of the failure ( vs success ) of omis on the stress and strain parameters in the models was conducted to verify the ability of these parameters to predict omi failure . failure was significantly dependent on principal strain parameters rather than stress parameters . peak maximum principal strain in the bone 0.5 to 1 mm from the omi surface was the best predictor of failure ( r ( 2 ) = 0.8151 ) . we propose the use of the maximum principal strain as a criterion for predicting omi failure in fe models .
the effect of corticision on root resorption with heavy and light forces . <eos> to investigate the association between corticision and different force magnitudes with the amount of root resorption . forty-four male wistar rats ( 7 week old ) were evaluated after an orthodontic spring delivering either 10 or 100 g was placed on the left maxillary first molars to move molars mesially . experimental rats were divided into four groups , with 11 animals in each group : ( 1 ) lf , no corticision and 10 g of orthodontic force ; ( 2 ) lfc , corticision and 10 g of force ; ( 3 ) hf , no corticision and 100 g of force ; and ( 4 ) hfc , corticision and 100 g of force . contralateral sides were used as unloaded controls . the total duration of the experimental period was 14 days . two-dimensional ( histomorphometric ) and three-dimensional ( volumetric , micro-focus x-ray computed tomography [ microct ] ) analysis of root craters were performed on maxillary first molars . histomorphometric and microct analysis revealed a significant amount of resorptive areas in the experimental groups when compared to unloaded controls . however , no significant difference was detected in the amount of resorption among the four experimental groups . at day 14 , neither the amount of force nor the cortical incision caused significant effect on root resorption that was registered by histomorphometric or microct analysis .
different heavy metals have various effects on picea wilsonii pollen germination and tube growth . <eos> heavy metal pollution has became one of the realistic matters of globality . previous reports indicated that heavy metals could significantly inhibit pollen germination and tube growth . in the present study , comparative studies on the effects of different heavy metals ( as , hg , cd , cr and cu ) on in-vitro picea wilsonii pollen germination and tube growth were carried out . microscopic evaluation revealed that different heavy metals had various degree of toxicity on p. wilsonii pollen tube development . as showed the most toxic effects on pollen germination , which was followed by hg and cd , while cr and cu showed relatively lower toxicity . besides , pollen tubes showed varying shapes in response to different heavy metal stress . pollen tubes treated with cd , hg and as were usually characterized by irregularly increasing diameters and swelling tips with distinct cytoplasimic vacuolation . on the other hand , except for the slightly increased diameters , no obvious abnormal shape were observed in tubes treated with cr or cu . lyso-tracker green staining indicated that only cd-treated pollen tubes showed numerous vacuole-like acidic organelles , though cytoplasmic vacuolization were also observed in pollen tubes treated with hg and a. in brief , our data indicated that different heavy metals have various effects on picea wilsonii pollen germination and tube growth , and that in-vitro pollen culture might be used as a competent system for biomonitoring of air pollution .
perchlorate : water and infant formulae contamination in france and risk assessment in infants . <eos> perchlorate ions clo4 ( - ) , known to inhibit competitively the uptake of iodine by the thyroid , have been detected in drinking water in france as well as in infant formulae . a tolerable daily intake ( tdi ) has been established at 0.7 µg kg ( -1 ) bw day ( -1 ) based on the inhibition of iodine uptake . due to this mechanism of action , the iodine status could strongly influence the biological effect of perchlorate . perchlorate concentrations in water and infant formulae were measured and the exposure of children under 6 months of age calculated . it appeared that the tdi could be exceeded in some children . as the iodine status is not optimal within the entire french population , there appears to be a need to clarify the sources of perchlorate ultimately to decrease exposure .
prolonged re-expression of the hypermethylated gene epb41l3 using artificial transcription factors and epigenetic drugs . <eos> epigenetic silencing of tumor suppressor genes ( tsgs ) is considered a significant event in the progression of cancer . for example , epb41l3 , a potential biomarker in cervical cancer , is often silenced by cancer-specific promoter methylation . artificial transcription factors ( atfs ) are unique tools to re-express such silenced tsgs to functional levels ; however , the induced effects are considered transient . here , we aimed to improve the efficiency and sustainability of gene re-expression using engineered zinc fingers fused to vp64 ( zf-atfs ) or dna methylation modifiers ( zf-tet2 or zf-tdg ) and / or by co-treatment with epigenetic drugs [ 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine or trichostatin a ( tsa ) ] . the epb41l3-zf effectively bound its methylated endogenous locus , as also confirmed by chip-seq . zf-atfs reactivated the epigenetically silenced target gene epb41l3 ( ∼ 10-fold ) in breast , ovarian , and cervical cancer cell lines . prolonged high levels of epb41l3 ( ∼ 150-fold ) induction could be achieved by short-term co-treatment with epigenetic drugs . interestingly , for otherwise ineffective zf-tet2 or zf-tdg treatments , tsa facilitated re-expression of epb41l3 up to twofold . atf-mediated re-expression demonstrated a tumor suppressive role for epb41l3 in cervical cancer cell lines . in conclusion , epigenetic reprogramming provides a novel way to improve sustainability of re-expression of epigenetically silenced promoters .
low prevalence of rmpa and high tendency of rmpa mutation correspond to low virulence of extended spectrum β-lactamase-producing klebsiella pneumoniae isolates . <eos> invasive syndrome caused by klebsiella pneumoniae ( kp ) , including liver abscess , is mainly caused by community-acquired strains with characteristics of positive hypermucoviscosity ( hv ) phenotype and regulator of mucoid phenotype a ( rmpa ) and transcriptional activator ( rmpa2 ) genes . extended- spectrum β-lactamase-producing kp ( esbl-kp ) is commonly nosocomial and rarely hv-positive . we aimed to explore the reasons of the rarer prevalence of hv phenotype , rmpa and rmpa2 as well as the virulence phenotype among the esbl-kp isolates from clinical specimens than those non-esbl isolates . the β-lactamase genes , rmpa , rmpa2 and genes for k capsule serotype of 440 kp isolates were analyzed . the virulence of the isolates was characterized by the mouse lethality experiments . the prevalence rates of hv phenotype ( ∼ 50 % vs . < 10 % ) as well as rmpa and rmpa2 genes ( ∼ 50-60 % vs . < 20-30 % ) were significantly higher in non-esbl group than in the esbl group ( p < 0.0001 ) . expression of hv phenotype in the rmpa-positive kp isolates was significantly rarer in the esbl group than in non-esbl group ( 33 . 3 % vs . 91 . 9 % , p < 0.0001 ) . the frameshift mutations of rmpa and / or rmpa2 corresponded to negative hv phenotype of kp isolates that harbored the rmpa and / or rmpa2 , resulting in variable mouse lethality ( ld50 , ∼ 10 ( 3 ) - > 5 × 10 ( 7 ) cfu ) . the mutation rates might significantly differ among kp isolates from various sources . virulence was dependent on rmpa-related hv phenotype . in conclusion , esbl-kp isolates were less hypermucoviscous and less virulent than non-esbl kp isolates , mostly due to concurrently lower carriage and higher mutation rates of the rmpa and rmpa2 genes .
b-lymphocytes support and regulate indirect t-cell alloreactivity in individual patients with chronic antibody-mediated rejection . <eos> we explored how b-lymphocytes influence in vitro t-cell alloresponses in patients with antibody-mediated rejection ( amr ) , testing whether b-cells would be preferentially involved in this group of patients . peripheral blood mononuclear cells were collected from 65 patients having biopsy : 14 patients with amr and 5 with no pathology on protocol ; 38 with amr and 8 with nonimmunologic damage on 'for cause' . using enzyme-linked immunosorbent spot assays , we found interferon-γ production by indirect allorecognition in 45 of 119 total samples from the 65 patients . b-cells preferentially processed and presented donor alloantigens in samples from amr patients . in a further 25 samples , b-cell-dependent allo-specific reactivity was shown by depletion of cd25 ( + ) cells and these individuals had higher percentages of cd4cd25hi cells . in 21 samples , reactivity was shown by depletion of cd19 ( + ) cells , associated with polarized cytokine production toward il-10 after polyclonal activation by igg / igm . overall , this shows a significant contribution by b-cells to indirect donor-specific t-cell reactivity in vitro in patients with amr . active suppression by distinct phenotypes of t- or b-cells in approximately half of the patients indicates that chronic amr is not characterized by a universal loss of immune regulation . thus , stratified approaches that accommodate the heterogeneity of cell-mediated immunity might be beneficial to treat graft dysfunction . kidney international advance online publication , 1 april 2015 ; doi:10 . 1038 / ki . 2015 . 100 .
high prevalence of and potential mechanisms for chronic kidney disease in patients with acute intermittent porphyria . <eos> acute intermittent porphyria ( aip ) is a genetic disorder of the synthesis of heme caused by a deficiency in hydroxymethylbilane synthase ( hmbs ) , leading to the overproduction of the porphyrin precursors δ-aminolevulinic acid and porphobilinogen . the aim of this study is to describe the clinical and biological characteristics , the renal pathology , and the cellular mechanisms of chronic kidney disease associated with aip . a total of 415 patients with hmbs deficiency followed up in the french porphyria center were enrolled in 2003 in a population-based study . a follow-up study was conducted in 2013 , assessing patients for clinical , biological , and histological parameters . in vitro models were used to determine whether porphyrin precursors promote tubular and endothelial cytotoxicity . chronic kidney disease occurred in up to 59 % of the symptomatic aip patients , with a decline in the glomerular filtration rate of ~ 1 ml / min per 1.73 m ( 2 ) annually . proteinuria was absent in the vast majority of the cases . the renal pathology was a chronic tubulointerstitial nephropathy , associated with a fibrous intimal hyperplasia and focal cortical atrophy . our experimental data provide evidence that porphyrin precursors promote endoplasmic reticulum stress , apoptosis , and epithelial phenotypic changes in proximal tubular cells . in conclusion , the diagnosis of chronic kidney disease associated with aip should be considered in cases of chronic tubulointerstitial nephropathy and / or focal cortical atrophy with severe proliferative arteriosclerosis . kidney international advance online publication , 1 april 2015 ; doi:10 . 1038 / ki . 2015 . 97 .
perioperative heart-type fatty acid binding protein is associated with acute kidney injury after cardiac surgery . <eos> acute kidney injury ( aki ) is a common complication after cardiac surgery and is associated with worse outcomes . since heart fatty acid binding protein ( h-fabp ) is a myocardial protein that detects cardiac injury , we sought to determine whether plasma h-fabp was associated with aki in the tribe-aki cohort ; a multi-center cohort of 1219 patients at high risk for aki who underwent cardiac surgery . the primary outcomes of interest were any aki ( acute kidney injury network ( akin ) stage 1 or higher ) and severe aki ( akin stage 2 or higher ) . the secondary outcome was long-term mortality after discharge . patients who developed aki had higher levels of h-fabp pre- and postoperatively than patients who did not have aki . in analyses adjusted for known aki risk factors , first postoperative log ( h-fabp ) was associated with severe aki ( adjusted odds ratio ( or ) 5.39 ( 95 % confidence interval ( ci ) , 2.87-10.11 ) per unit increase ) , while preoperative log ( h-fabp ) was associated with any aki ( 2.07 ( 1.48-2.89 ) ) and mortality ( 1.67 ( 1.17-2.37 ) ) . these relationships persisted after adjustment for change in serum creatinine ( for first postoperative log ( h-fabp ) ) and biomarkers of cardiac and kidney injury , including brain natriuretic peptide , cardiac troponin-i , interleukin-18 , liver fatty acid binding protein , kidney injury molecule-1 , and neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin . thus , perioperative plasma h-fabp levels may be used for risk stratification of aki and mortality following cardiac surgery . kidney international advance online publication , 1 april 2015 ; doi:10 . 1038 / ki . 2015 . 104 .
a comparison of ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging shows that kidney length predicts chronic kidney disease in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease . <eos> autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease ( adpkd ) is marked by gradual renal cyst and kidney enlargement and ultimately renal failure . magnetic resonance-based , height-adjusted total kidney volume ( httkv ) over 600 cc / m predicts the development of ckd stage 3 within 8 years in the consortium for radiologic imaging in polycystic kidney disease cohort . here we compared simultaneous ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging to determine whether ultrasound and kidney length ( kl ) predict future ckd stage 3 over longer periods of follow-up . a total of 241 adpkd patients , 15-46 years , with creatinine clearance of 70 ml / min and above had iothalamate clearance , magnetic resonance , and ultrasound evaluations . participants underwent an average of five repeat clearance measurements over a mean follow-up of 9.3 years . ultrasound and magnetic resonance-based tkv and kl were compared using bland-altman plots and intraclass correlations . each measure was tested to predict future ckd stage 3. relatively strong intraclass correlations between ultrasound and magnetic resonance were found for both httkv and kl ( 0.81 and 0.85 , respectively ) . ultrasound and magnetic resonance-based httkv and kl predicted future ckd stage 3 similarly ( auc of 0.87 , 0.88 , 0.87 , and 0.88 , respectively ) . an ultrasound kidney length over 16 . 5 cm and httkv over 650 ml / min had the best cut point for predicting the development of ckd stage 3. thus , kidney length alone is sufficient to stratify the risk of progression to renal insufficiency early in adpkd using either ultrasound or magnetic resonance imaging .
optimum at1 receptor-neprilysin inhibition has superior cardioprotective effects compared with at1 receptor blockade alone in hypertensive rats . <eos> neprilysin inhibitors prevent the breakdown of bradykinin and natriuretic peptides , promoting vasodilation and natriuresis . however , they also increase angiotensin ii and endothelin-1 . here we studied the effects of a low and a high dose of the neprilysin inhibitor thiorphan on top of at1 receptor blockade with irbesartan versus vehicle in tgr ( mren2 ) 27 rats with high renin hypertension . mean arterial blood pressure was unaffected by vehicle or thiorphan alone . irbesartan lowered blood pressure , but after 7 days pressure started to increase again . low- but not high-dose thiorphan prevented this rise . only during exposure to low-dose thiorphan plus irbesartan did heart weight / body weight ratio , cardiac atrial natriuretic peptide expression , and myocyte size decrease significantly . circulating endothelin-1 was not affected by low-dose thiorphan with or without irbesartan , but increased after treatment with high-dose thiorphan plus irbesartan . this endothelin-1 rise was accompanied by an increase in renal sodium-hydrogen exchanger 3 protein abundance , and an upregulation of constrictor vascular endothelin type b receptors . consequently , the endothelin type b receptor antagonist bq788 no longer enhanced endothelin-1-induced vasoconstriction ( indicative of endothelin type b receptor-mediated vasodilation ) , but prevented it . thus , optimal neprilysin inhibitor dosing reveals additional cardioprotective effects on top of at1 receptor blockade in renin-dependent hypertension .
ultrahigh pressure extraction of bioactive compounds from plants-a review . <eos> extraction of bioactive compounds from plants is one of the most important research areas for pharmaceutical and food industries . conventional extraction techniques are usually associated with longer extraction times , lower yields , more organic solvent consumption , and poor extraction efficiency . a novel extraction technique , ultrahigh pressure extraction , has been developed for the extraction of bioactive compounds from plants , in order to shorten the extraction time , decrease the solvent consumption , increase the extraction yields and enhance the quality of extracts . the mild processing temperature of ultrahigh pressure extraction may lead to an enhanced extraction of thermolabile bioactive ingredients . a critical review is conducted to introduce the different aspects of ultrahigh pressure extraction of plants bioactive compounds , including principles and mechanisms , the important parameters influencing its performance , comparison of ultrahigh pressure extraction with other extraction techniques , advantages and disadvantages . the future opportunities of ultrahigh pressure extraction are also discussed .
identification of new genomospecies in the mycobacterium terrae complex . <eos> members of the mycobacterium terrae complex are slow-growing , non-chromogenic acid-fast bacilli found in the natural environment and occasionally in clinical material . these genetically closely-related members are difficult to differentiate by conventional phenotypic and molecular tests . in this paper we describe the use of whole genome data for the identification of four strains genetically similar to mycobacterium sp . jdm601 , a newly identified member of the m. terrae complex . phylogenetic information from the alignment of genome-wide orthologous genes and single nucleotide polymorphisms show consistent clustering of the four strains together with m. sp . jdm601 into a distinct clade separate from other rapid and slow growing mycobacterial species . more detailed inter-strain comparisons using average nucleotide identity , tetra-nucleotide frequencies and analysis of synteny indicate that our strains are closely related to but not of the same species as m. sp . jdm601 . besides the 16s rrna signature described previously for the m. terrae complex , five more hypothetical proteins were found that are potentially useful for the rapid identification of mycobacterial species belonging to the m. terrae complex . this paper illustrates the versatile utilization of whole genome data for the delineation of new bacterial species and introduces four new genomospecies to add to current members in the m. terrae complex .
subclinical hypothyroidism is associated with increased risk for cancer mortality in adult taiwanese-a 10 years population-based cohort . <eos> the association between subclinical hypothyroidism ( sch ) and cancer mortality is seldom discussed . a total of 115,746 participants without thyroid disease history , aged 20 and above , were recruited from four nationwide health screening centers in taiwan from 1998 to 1999 . sch was defined as a serum thyroid-stimulating hormone ( tsh ) level of 5.0-19.96 miu / l with normal total thyroxine concentrations . euthyroidism was defined as a serum tsh level of 0.47-4.9 miu / l. cox proportional hazards regression analyses were used to estimate the relative risks ( rrs ) of death from cancer for adults with sch during a 10-year follow-up period . among 115,746 adults , 1,841 had sch ( 1.6 % ) and 113,905 ( 98 . 4 % ) had euthyroidism . there were 1,532 cancer deaths during the 1,034,082 person-years follow-up period . adjusted for age , gender , body mass index , diabetes , hypertension , dyslipidemia , smoking , alcohol drinking , betel nut chewing , physical activity , income , and education level , the rrs ( 95 % confidence interval ) of cancer deaths among subjects with sch versus euthyroid subjects were 1.51 ( 1.06 to 2.15 ) . cancer site analysis revealed a significant increased risk of bone , skin and breast cancer among sch subjects ( rr 2.79 , ( 1.01 , 7.70 ) ) . the risks of total cancer deaths were more prominent in the aged ( rr 1.71 , ( 1.02 to 2.87 ) ) , in females ( rr 1.69 ( 1.08 to 2.65 ) ) , and in heavy smokers ( rr 2.24 , ( 1.19 to 4.21 ) ) . subjects with sch had a significantly increased risk for cancer mortality among adult taiwanese . this is the first report to demonstrate the association between sch and cancer mortality .
purification and biochemical characterization of an extracellular serine peptidase from aspergillus terreus . <eos> peptidases are important because they play a central role in pharmaceutical , food , environmental and other industrial processes . a serine peptidase from aspergillus terreus was isolated after two chromatography steps that showed a yield of 15 . 5 % . its molecular mass was determined to be 43 kda , by sds-page . this peptidase was active between ph 5.0 to 8.0 and had maximum activity at ph 7.0 , at 45°c . when exposited with 1 m of urea , the enzyme maintained 100 % activity and used azocasein as substrate . the n-terminal ( first 15 residues ) showed 33 % identity with the serine peptidase of aspergillus clavatus es1 . the kinetics assays showed that subsite s2 did not bind polar basic amino acids ( his and arg ) non-polar acidic amino acids ( asp and glu ) . the subsite s1 showed higher catalytic efficiency than the s2 and s3 subsites .
ohmic heating : concept and applications- a review . <eos> ohmic heating , also known as joule heating , electrical resistance heating , direct electrical resistance heating , is a process of heating the food by passing electric current . in ohmic heating the energy is dissipated directly into the foods . electrical conductivity is a key parameter in the design of an effective ohmic heater . a large number of potential applications exist for ohmic heating , including blanching , evaporation , dehydration , fermentation , sterilization , pasteurization and heating of foods . beyond heating , applied electric ﬁeld under ohmic heating causes electroporation of cell membranes which increases extraction rates , reduced gelatinization temperature and enthalpy . ohmic heating results in faster heating of food along with maintenance of colour and nutritional value of food . water absorption index , water solubility index , thermal properties and pasting properties are altered with the application of ohmic heating . ohmic heating results in pre-gelatinized starches which reduces the energy requirement during processing . but its higher initial cost , lack of its applications in foods containing fats and oils and less awareness limits its use .
the spectrum of hbv / hcv coinfection : epidemiology , clinical characteristics , viralinteractions and management . <eos> monoinfection with either hepatitis b ( hbv ) or c virus ( hcv ) represents one of the major causes of chronic liver disease globally . however , in endemic areas a substantial number of patients are infected with both viruses mainly as a result of the common routes of transmission . numerous studies have demonstrated that dually infected patients carry a greater risk of advanced liver disease , cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma compared with monoinfected patients . the choice of treatment is based on the virological profile of each patient taking into account the dominant virus pattern . in predominant hcv , standard combination treatment with pegylated interferon and ribavirin has proven equally effective in hbv / hcv-coinfected patients as well as in hcv-monoinfected patients . strikingly , approximately 60 % of patients with inactive hbv infection before hcv treatment may present hbv reactivation while others experience hepatitis b surface antigen seroconversion after clearing hcv , demonstrating the complexity of the interaction between the two viruses during the follow up . the therapeutic strategies for the predominant hbv dually infected patients are more vague , although high genetic barrier nucleos ( t ) ide analogues play an indisputable role . finally , the recently approved combination treatments for chronic hepatitis c containing direct-acting antivirals may definitely change the treatment protocols in the future although there is no experience with these drugs in dually infected patients until today .
fibroscan versus simple noninvasive screening tools in predicting fibrosis in high-risk nonalcoholic fatty liver disease patients from western india . <eos> the aim of the study was to determine the efficacy of fibroscan versus noninvasive markers , i.e. nonalcoholic fatty liver disease ( nafld ) fibrosis score ( nfs ) ; aspartate-aminotransferase ( ast ) / platelet ratio ( apri ) ; and ast / alanine-aminotransferase ( aar ) as a screening tool in nafld patients with high risk of liver fibrosis . this is a single-center study carried out in patients attending the outpatient department for dyspepsia and diagnosed with fatty liver on ultrasound . liver biopsy was advised in diabetics , metabolic syndrome , body mass index > 30 kg / m ( 2 ) , raised transaminases and hypothyroidism . fibroscan , apri , aar and nfs were calculated . area under the curve ( auroc ) , negative ( npv ) and positive predictive values ( ppv ) were calculated for each diagnostic test . of the 1500 patients screened , 110 with the above-described risk factors underwent liver biopsy ( stage 3 / 4 fibrosis = 38 ) . diabetes predicted severe fibrosis ( stage 3 / 4 ) . sensitivity , specificity , ppv , npv and auroc for fibroscan at value 12 kpa were 0.9 , 0.8 , 0.70 , 0.93 and 0.91 respectively for predicting stage 3 / 4 fibrosis . with increase in severity of liver fibrosis there was stepwise increase in fibroscan values ( p = 0.000038 , kruskal-wallis test ) . sensitivity , specificity , ppv and npv for aar and nfs at cutoff of 1.5 and 0.676 were 0.8 , 1.0 , 1.0 and 0.92 and 0.8 , 1.0 , 1.0 and 0.92 respectively . fibroscan , nfs and aar are simple noninvasive markers of fibrosis that can be utilized as screening tools in patients with high risk for fibrosis to determine the need for biopsy . the cutoff of fibroscan for stage 3 / 4 fibrosis was 12 kpa .
analysis of acetohydroxyacid synthase1 gene in chickpea conferring resistance to imazamox herbicide . <eos> chickpea ( cicer arietinum l. ) production in the canadian prairies is challenging due to a lack of effective weed management mainly because of poor competition ability of the crop and limited registered herbicide options . chickpea genotype with resistance to imidazolinone ( imi ) herbicides has been identified . a point mutation in the acetohydroxyacid synthase1 ( ahas1 ) gene at c581 to t581 , resulting in an amino acid substitution from ala194 to val194 ( position 205 , standardized to arabidopsis ) , confers the resistance to imazamox in chickpea . however , the molecular mechanism leading to the resistance is not fully understood . in many plant species , contrasting transcription levels of ahas gene has been implicated in the resistant and susceptible genotypes in response to imi . the objectives of this research were to compare the ahas gene expression and ahas enzyme activity in resistant and susceptible chickpea cultivars in response to imazamox herbicide treatment . results from rt-qpcr indicated that there is no significant change in the transcript levels of ahas1 between the susceptible and the resistant genotypes in response to imazamox treatment . protein hydrophobic cluster analysis , protein-ligand docking analysis , and ahas enzyme activity assay all indicated that the resistance to imazamox in chickpea is due to the alteration of interaction of the ahas1 enzyme with the imazamox herbicide .
closing the health gap in a generation : exploring the association between household characteristics and schooling status among orphans and vulnerable children in swaziland . <eos> swaziland has one of the highest hiv / aids prevalences in the world , which has contributed to many swazi children being left as `` orphans and vulnerable children '' ( ovc ) . in 2010 , there were 78,000 aids orphans in the country and the number is expected to increase given the current hiv prevalence . the who aims to close the gap in a generation and eliminate health inequality ; as a result the swazi government began in 2005 to provide financial support to the education of ovc . prior research has indicated that household characteristics are some of the major determinants with respect to schooling status among children . we have examined the association between household characteristics and schooling status of ovc . schooling status may vary by gender and by age , as well as by other sociodemographic factors , in sub-saharan african societies , and therefore we have also included a comprehensive set of appropriate variables in all of our multivariate analyses . using existing data from the swaziland multiple indicator cluster survey 2010 , a total of 5890 children aged 7-18 years old were analyzed . the results from the multivariate logistic regressions showed that non-ovc were more likely than ovc to be in school ( or = 2.18 , p < 0.001 ) , even after taking other variables into considerations . the ovc in socioeconomically disadvantaged households , such as those with lower levels of household wealt , and those who resided in an urban area , were less likely to be in school . these findings suggest that education programs for ovc need to be household-appropriate .
sleep and the use of energy products in a combat environment . <eos> the use of energy products appears to be widespread among deployed personnel , presumably to combat fatigue and sleep deprivation . however , these products have been associated with unpleasant side effects and adverse events , including insomnia , mood swings , fatigue , cardiac arrest , and even death . to quantify the sleep habits and energy products used among deployed service members in afghanistan from 2010-2011 . participants completed an anonymous survey querying their demographic information , sleep habits , combat exposure , and energy product use . respondent data : 83 % experienced some degree of insomnia ; 28 % were using a prescription or over-the-counter sleep aid ; 81 % reported using at least one energy product daily . the most frequently consumed energy products were caffeinated coffee and soda . only 4 energy products were used more frequently during deployment than prior to deployment : rip-it , tiger , hydroxycut , and energy drink powders . on average , respondents who increased their use consumed only 2 more servings per week during deployment than they had prior to deployment . only degree of combat exposure , not quantity of energy products consumed , predicted degree of insomnia . energy product consumption by service members during deployment was not dramatically different than predeployment and was not associated with insomnia .
effectiveness of telebehavioral health program nurse case managers ( ncm ) : data collection tools and the process for ncm-sensitive outcome measures . <eos> as a part of our nation 's pursuit of improvements in patient care outcomes , continuity of care , and cost containment , the case manager has become a vital member on interdisciplinary teams and in health care agencies . telebehavioral health programs , as a relatively new method of delivering behavioral health care , have recently begun to incorporate case management into their multidisciplinary teams . to determine the efficacy and efficiency of healthcare programs , program managers are charged with the determination of the outcomes of the care rendered to patient populations . however , programs that use telehealth methods to deliver care have unique structures in place that impact ability to collect outcome data . a military medical center that serves the pacific region developed surveys and processes to distribute , administer , and collect information about a telehealth environment to obtain outcome data for the nurse case manager . this report describes the survey development and the processes created to capture nurse case manager outcomes . additionally , the surveys and processes developed in this project for measuring outcomes may be useful in other settings and disciplines .
military service member and veteran self reports of efficacy of cranial electrotherapy stimulation for anxiety , posttraumatic stress disorder , insomnia , and depression . <eos> cranial electrotherapy stimulation ( ces ) is being prescribed for service members and veterans for the treatment of anxiety , posttraumatic stress disorder ( ptsd ) , insomnia and depression . the purpose of this study was to examine service members ' and veterans ' perceptions of the effectiveness and safety of ces treatment . service members and veterans ( n = 1,514 ) who had obtained a ces device through the department of defense or veterans affairs medical center from 2006-2011 were invited to participate in the web based survey via email . one hundred fifty-two participants returned questionnaires . data were analyzed using descriptive statistics . participants reported clinical improvement of 25 % or more from using ces for anxiety ( 66 . 7 % ) , ptsd ( 62 . 5 % ) , insomnia ( 65 . 3 % ) and depression ( 53 . 9 % ) . the majority of these participants reported clinical improvement of 50 % or more . respondents also perceived ces to be safe ( 99 . 0 % ) . those individuals who were not taking any prescription medication rated ces more effective than the combined ces and prescription medication group . ces provides service members and veterans with a safe , noninvasive , nondrug , easy to use treatment for anxiety , ptsd , insomnia , and depression that can be used in the clinical setting or self-directed at home .
the effects of military deployment on early child development . <eos> the purpose of this observational , point prevalence study is to determine if parental deployment affects the cognitive , social and emotional development of preschool age children in the military family . demographic information was collected and an age-appropriate ages and stages questionnaire ( asq-3 ) and ages and stages social-emotional inventory ( asq : se ) were administered . the primary outcome measure was the failure rates on the developmental instruments . we identified 151 parents of eligible children ; 95 children had a parent that deployed during their lifetime . we found a significant difference in asq-3 failure rates for children in the deployed group compared to those in the nondeployed group . children of deployed parents were at least twice as often to fail the asq-3 or asq : se developmental screen compared to children whose parents did not deploy . 30 . 5 % of children in the deployed group failed the asq-3 screen while 12 . 5 % of children who did not have a deployed parent failed ( p = . 009 ) . on the asq : se developmental screen , 16 . 8 % of children who had a parent deploy failed versus 5.4 % of children who did not have a parent deploy ( p = . 031 ) . this study suggests that parental deployment is related to adverse risk for developmental delays in children in military families . the psychological burden on military children could be life-long or require significant resources to address . these adverse outcomes could be possibly mitigated by early detection of developmental delay and firm attention to aggressive screening techniques in military communities .
mental health outreach and screening among returning veterans : are we asking the right questions ? <eos> this study looked at predictors of mental health treatment utilization in a unique cohort of recently separated veterans coming to the department of veterans affairs ( va ) ( n = 152 ) . this convenience sample voluntarily completed questionnaires , which included mental health screening tools , during an outreach event at a large urban va medical center . researchers reviewed computerized medical records of these consenting participants to record va treatment utilization . there is a statistically significant association between posttraumatic stress disorder screening results , functional impairment , and treatment-seeking . certain functional impairments increase the odds of participation in va mental health care . these include problems with school and / or work ( odds ratio ( or ) = 2.8 ) , physical fights ( or = 2.8 ) , physical health problems ( or = 3.0 ) , financial difficulties ( or = 3.0 ) , irritability / anger ( or = 3.4 ) , isolation ( or = 3.8 ) , drug use ( or = 5.7 ) , and problems with social support ( or = 7.0 ) . this study concluded that asking about symptoms alone may not capture the breadth and nature of veterans ' postdeployment difficulties .
apps seeking theories : results of a study on the use of health behavior change theories in cancer survivorship mobile apps . <eos> thousands of mobile health apps are now available for use on mobile phones for a variety of uses and conditions , including cancer survivorship . many of these apps appear to deliver health behavior interventions but may fail to consider design considerations based in human computer interface and health behavior change theories . this study is designed to assess the presence of and manner in which health behavior change and health communication theories are applied in mobile phone cancer survivorship apps . the research team selected a set of criteria-based health apps for mobile phones and assessed each app using qualitative coding methods to assess the application of health behavior change and communication theories . each app was assessed using a coding derived from the taxonomy of 26 health behavior change techniques by abraham and michie with a few important changes based on the characteristics of mhealth apps that are specific to information processing and human computer interaction such as control theory and feedback systems . a total of 68 mobile phone apps and games built on the ios and android platforms were coded , with 65 being unique . using a cohen 's kappa analysis statistic , the inter-rater reliability for the ios apps was 86 . 1 ( p < . 001 ) and for the android apps , 77 . 4 ( p < . 001 ) . for the most part , the scores for inclusion of theory-based health behavior change characteristics in the ios platform cancer survivorship apps were consistently higher than those of the android platform apps . for personalization and tailoring , 67 % of the ios apps ( 24 / 36 ) had these elements as compared to 38 % of the android apps ( 12 / 32 ) . in the area of prompting for intention formation , 67 % of the ios apps ( 34 / 36 ) indicated these elements as compared to 16 % ( 5 / 32 ) of the android apps . mobile apps are rapidly emerging as a way to deliver health behavior change interventions that can be tailored or personalized for individuals . as these apps and games continue to evolve and include interactive and adaptive sensors and other forms of dynamic feedback , their content and interventional elements need to be grounded in human computer interface design and health behavior and communication theory and practice .
effect of cigarette design on biomarkers of exposure , puffing topography and respiratory parameters . <eos> despite the lack of evidence , many reports exist which have implied that smokers inhale low-yield cigarette smoke more deeply than that of high-yield cigarettes . the objective of this study was to investigate the effect of short-term switching between smoker 's own brand and test cigarettes with different smoke yields on puffing topography , respiratory parameters and biomarkers of exposure . participants were randomly assigned to smoke either a test cigarette-high tar ( tch ) , for two days , and then switched to a test cigarette-low tar ( tcl ) , for two days or the reverse order ( n = 10 each sequence ) . puffing topography ( cress microdevice ) , respiratory parameters ( inductive plethysmography ) and biomarkers of exposure ( boe , urinary nicotine equivalents - ne and blood carboxyhemoglobin - cohb ) were measured at baseline and on days 2 and 4. the average puffs per cigarette , puff volume and puff durations were statistically significantly lower , and inter-puff interval was significantly longer for the tch compared to the tcl groups . respiratory parameters were not statistically significantly different between the tch and tcl groups . post-baseline ne and cohb were statistically significantly lower in the tcl compared to the tch groups . under the conditions of this study , we found no indication of changes in respiratory parameters , particularly inhalation time and volume , between study participants smoking lower versus higher yield cigarettes . likewise , the boe provides no indication of deeper inhalation when smoking low- versus high-yield cigarettes . these findings are consistent with the published literature indicating smoking low-yield cigarettes does not increase the depth of inhalation .
electronic properties of electrical vortices in ferroelectric nanocomposites from large-scale ab initio computations . <eos> an original ab initio procedure is developed and applied to a ferroelectric nanocomposite , in order to reveal the effect of electrical vortices on electronic properties . such procedure involves the combination of two large-scale numerical schemes , namely , the effective hamiltonian ( to incorporate ionic degrees of freedom ) and the linear-scaling three-dimensional fragment method ( to treat electronic degrees of freedom ) . the use of such procedure sheds some light into the origin of the recently observed current that is activated at rather low voltages in systems possessing electrical vortices . it also reveals a novel electronic phenomena that is a systematic control of the type of the band-alignment ( i.e. , type i versus type ii ) within the same material via the temperature-driven annihilation / formation of electrical topological defects .
quality and safety aspects of cereals ( wheat ) and their products . <eos> cereals and most specifically wheat are described in this chapter highlighting on their safety and quality aspects . moreover , wheat quality aspects are adequately addressed since they are used to characterize dough properties and baking quality . determination of dough properties is also mentioned and pasta quality is also described in this chapter . chemometrics-multivariate analysis is one of the analysis carried out . regarding production weighing / mixing of flours , kneading , extruded wheat flours , and sodium chloride are important processing steps / raw materials used in the manufacturing of pastry products . staling of cereal-based products is also taken into account . finally , safety aspects of cereal-based products are well documented with special emphasis on mycotoxins , acrylamide , and near infra red ( nir ) methodology .
patients ' perspectives of accessibility and digital delivery of factual content provided by official medical and surgical specialty society websites : a qualitative assessment . <eos> health care websites provide a valuable resource of health information to online consumers , especially patients . official surgical and medical society websites should be a reliable first point of contact . the primary aim of this study was to quantitatively assess medical and surgical society websites for content and highlight the essential features required for a high-quality , user-friendly society website . twenty specialty association websites from each of the regions , australia , uk , canada , europe , and the usa were selected for a total of 100 websites . medical and surgical specialities were consistent across each region . each website was systematically and critically analysed for content and usability . the average points scored per website was 3.2 out of 10 . of the total ( n = 100 ) websites , 12 scored at least 7 out of 10 points and 2 scored 9 out of 10 . as well , 35 % ( 35 . 0 / 100 ) of the websites had an information tab for patients on their respective homepages while 38 % ( 38 . 0 / 100 ) had download access to patient information . a minority of the websites included different forms of multimedia such as pictures and diagrams ( 24 . 0 / 100 , 24 % ) and videos ( 18 . 0 / 100 , 18 % ) . we found that most society websites did not meet an adequate standard for delivery of information . half of the websites were not patient accessible , with the primary focus being for health professionals . as well , most required logins for information access . specialty health care societies should create patient-friendly websites that would be beneficial to all online consumers .
primary prevention of cardiovascular disease with hormone replacement therapy . <eos> many peri- and postmenopausal women suffer from a reduced quality of life due to menopausal symptoms and preventable diseases . the importance of cardiovascular disease in women must be emphasized , as it is the leading cause of mortality and morbidity in women . it is well known that female hormones contribute to the later onset of cardiovascular disease in women . the effect of estrogens has for decades been understood from observational studies of postmenopausal women treated with hormone replacement therapy ( hrt ) . later , treatment with hrt was disregarded due to the fear of side-effects and an ambiguity of the cardiovascular advantages . accumulating knowledge from the large number of trials and studies has elucidated the cause for the disparity in results . in this paper , the beneficial effects of hrt , with emphasis on cardiovascular disease are explained , and the relative and absolute risks of side-effects are discussed .
mechanisms of alveolar epithelial injury , repair , and fibrosis . <eos> the challenge facing many fibrotic lung diseases is that these conditions usually present late , often after several decades of repetitive alveolar epithelial injury , during which functional alveolar units are gradually obliterated and replaced with nonfunctional connective tissue . the resulting fibrosis is often progressive and , in the case of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ( ipf ) , invariably leads to respiratory insufficiency and , ultimately , the premature death of affected individuals . recent years have seen a greater appreciation of the relative importance of chronic inflammation as a driver of fibrotic responses . current evidence suggests that ipf arises as a result of repetitive epithelial injury and a highly aberrant wound healing response in genetically susceptible and aged individuals . nonspecific anti-inflammatory agents offer no clinical benefit , but the potential contribution of maladaptive immune responses in determining outcome is gaining increasing recognition . the importance of key differences in the tissue-regenerative potential in young versus aged individuals is also beginning to be more fully appreciated . moreover , there is considerable overlap in the mechanisms underlying tissue repair and cancer , and patients with ipf are at heightened risk of developing lung cancer . progressive fibrosis and cancer may therefore represent the extremes of a highly dysregulated tissue injury response . this brief review focuses on some of this evidence and on our current understanding of abnormal tissue repair responses after chronic epithelial injury in the specific context of ipf .
epithelial-mesenchymal interactions in fibrosis and repair . transforming growth factor-β activation by epithelial cells and fibroblasts . <eos> transforming growth factor-β ( tgf-β ) plays a central role in driving tissue fibrosis . tgf-β is secreted in a latent form , held latent by noncovalent association of the active cytokine with a peptide derived from cleavage of the n-terminal domain of the same gene product , and needs to be activated extracellularly to exert any of its diverse biological effects . we have shown that two of the three mammalian isoforms of tgf-β , tgf-β1 and tgf-β3 , depend on interactions with cell surface integrins for activation . we found that the integrin αvβ6 is highly induced on injured alveolar epithelial cells , potently induces tgf-β activation , and is critical for the development of pulmonary fibrosis and acute lung injury . however , although tgf-β drives fibrosis in virtually every anatomic site , αvβ6-mediated tgf-β activation is much more restricted . for example , αvβ6 is not induced on injured hepatocytes and plays little or no role in cirrhosis induced by repetitive hepatocyte injury . fibroblasts are highly contractile cells that express multiple integrins closely related to αvβ6 , which share the promiscuous αv subunit , so we reasoned that perhaps one or more of these αv integrins on fibroblasts might substitute for αvβ6 and activate the tgf-β required to drive liver fibrosis . indeed , deletion of the αv subunit from activated fibroblasts protected mice from carbon tetrachloride-induced liver fibrosis . importantly , these same mice were protected from bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis and renal fibrosis caused by unilateral ureteral obstruction , despite the presence of epithelial αvβ6 in these mice . these results suggest that the generation and maintenance of sufficient quantities of active tgf-β to cause tissue fibrosis in multiple organs probably depends on at least two sources-tgf-β activation by injured epithelial cells that drives fibroblast expansion and activation and an amplification step that involves tgf-β activation by an αv integrin on activated fibroblasts . these results suggest that intervening at either of these steps could be useful for the treatment of fibrotic diseases .
mechanisms and clinical consequences of acute lung injury . <eos> acute respiratory distress syndrome ( ards ) was first described in 1967 , and since then there have been a large number of studies addressing its pathogenesis and therapies . despite intense research efforts , very few therapies for ards have been shown to be effective other than the use of lung protection strategies . the scarcity of therapeutic choices is related to the intricate pathogenesis of the syndrome and to insensitive and aspecific criteria to diagnose this profound acute respiratory failure . the aim of this paper is to summarize advances of new ards definitions and provide an overview of new relevant signaling pathways that mediate acute lung injury .
lung extracellular matrix and fibroblast function . <eos> extracellular matrix ( ecm ) is a tissue-specific macromolecular structure that provides physical support to tissues and is essential for normal organ function . in the lung , ecm plays an active role in shaping cell behavior both in health and disease by virtue of the contextual clues it imparts to cells . qualities including dimensionality , molecular composition , and intrinsic stiffness all promote normal function of the lung ecm . alterations in composition and / or modulation of stiffness of the focally injured or diseased lung ecm microenvironment plays a part in reparative processes performed by fibroblasts . under conditions of remodeling or in disease states , inhomogeneous stiffening ( or softening ) of the pathologic ecm may both precede modifications in cell behavior and be a result of disease progression . the ability of ecm to stimulate further ecm production by fibroblasts and drive disease progression has potentially significant implications for mesenchymal stromal cell-based therapies ; in the setting of pathologic ecm stiffness or composition , the therapeutic intent of progenitor cells may be subverted . taken together , current data suggest that lung ecm actively contributes to health and disease ; thus , mediators of cell-ecm signaling or factors that influence ecm stiffness may represent viable therapeutic targets in many lung disorders .
characteristic patterns in the fibrotic lung . comparing idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis with chronic lung allograft dysfunction . <eos> tissue fibrosis , a major cause of death worldwide , leads to significant organ dysfunction in any organ of the human body . in the lung , fibrosis critically impairs gas exchange , tissue oxygenation , and immune function . idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ( ipf ) is the most detrimental and lethal fibrotic disease of the lung , with an estimated median survival of 50 % after 3-5 years . lung transplantation currently remains the only therapeutic alternative for ipf and other end-stage pulmonary disorders . posttransplant lung function , however , is compromised by short- and long-term complications , most importantly chronic lung allograft dysfunction ( clad ) . clad affects up to 50 % of all transplanted lungs after 5 years , and is characterized by small airway obstruction with pronounced epithelial injury , aberrant wound healing , and subepithelial and interstitial fibrosis . intriguingly , the mechanisms leading to the fibrotic processes in the engrafted lung exhibit striking similarities to those in ipf ; therefore , antifibrotic therapies may contribute to increased graft function and survival in clad . in this review , we focus on these common fibrosis-related mechanisms in ipf and clad , comparing and contrasting clinical phenotypes , the mechanisms of fibrogenesis , and biomarkers to monitor , predict , or prognosticate disease status .
embryonic and induced pluripotent stem cells for lung regeneration . <eos> the discovery of embryonic and induced pluripotent stem cells ( escs and ipscs ) has ushered in an exciting new era of regenerative medicine . human pluripotent stem cells can be `` directed '' in vitro toward lung epithelium by applying specific stepwise combinations of growth factors that recapitulate the molecular mechanisms of respiratory development in animal models . in a relatively short time , there has been significant progress in deriving lung epithelium from escs / ipscs . these directed differentiation protocols include high concentrations of activin a to induce definitive endoderm followed by dual inhibition of bone morphogenic protein and tgf-β signaling pathways to produce anterior foregut endoderm . subsequent stimulation of wnt , bone morphogenic protein , and fibroblast growth factor signaling leads to lung epithelial lineage specification , identified by the expression of nkx2 . 1 . these cells subsequently express other markers of the developing lung and a variety of lung epithelial subtypes . the major limitation in the field currently is deriving and characterizing mature , functional lung epithelium . the generation of ipscs is now well established , and researchers have generated ipscs from patients with acquired and inherited lung diseases . this platform offers unparalleled opportunities to model lung development and disease using human cells .
therapeutic potential of mesenchymal stromal cells for acute respiratory distress syndrome . <eos> based on preclinical data , cell-based therapy with bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem ( stromal ) cells ( mscs ) is a potentially attractive new therapeutic option for treating patients with the acute respiratory distress syndrome . small and large animal models of acute lung injury from endotoxin , live bacteria , and sepsis have shown that mscs can decrease lung injury and increase survival . the mechanisms for benefit are mediated in part by paracrine release of several antiinflammatory cytokines , keratinocyte growth factor , angiopoietin-1 , as well as the release of antimicrobial peptides . there is also evidence that mscs can transfer mitochondria and restore normal bioenergetics to injured alveolar epithelium . some of the beneficial effects are mediated by microvesicles . a phase 1 safety and dose-escalation trial was completed and a randomized , double-blind clinical trial is currently underway .
confronting the frustrations of negative clinical trials in acute respiratory distress syndrome . <eos> despite robust successes in trials of mechanical ventilation , pharmacologic interventions in acute respiratory distress syndrome have been disappointing . although ineffective therapy remains the compelling explanation for these negative trials , other possible explanations exist . these negative trials , better termed `` statistically negative trials '' or `` indeterminate trials , '' can not prove that a therapy is ineffective . it is important for clinicians and investigators to appreciate the alternative explanations for negative trials of potentially effective therapies because these indicate options for improving clinical trials in acute respiratory distress syndrome . these options can be organized into strategies that increase sample size , increase the signal from the therapy , and reduce the noise or variation in the study . each of the strategies to improve the likelihood of a positive clinical trial poses a potential tradeoff in generalizability , cost , sample size , signal , or noise .
conceptual approaches to lung injury and repair . <eos> lung injury and repair is a broad topic that includes many cell types and is relevant to the pathogenesis of most lung diseases . here , we focus on injury and repair of the alveolus , the principal function of which is to achieve gas exchange . the many cell types and structures present in the alveolus are discussed , with emphasis on their interactions in both health and disease . we define injury as damage resulting in impaired gas exchange ; physiologic repair , then , requires restoration of normal alveolar architecture and function . the role of inflammation in both injury and repair of structural alveolar cells , particularly epithelial cells , as well as mechanisms of resolution of inflammation will be addressed . finally , emphasis is placed on the importance of addressing quantitatively the dynamic and complex multidirectional interactions between the many alveolar cell types and structures in three dimensions over time and in relating such mechanistic studies to physiologic outcomes and human disease .
body dissatisfaction and mirror exposure : evidence for a dissociation between self-report and physiological responses in highly body-dissatisfied women . <eos> weight and shape concerns are widespread in the general population . mirror exposure has been used to reduce body dissatisfaction but little is known about the mechanisms which underlie this therapeutic technique . the present study examined emotional , cognitive , and psychophysiological responses , in women with high and low levels of body dissatisfaction , exposed to their own bodies in a mirror . forty-two university-attending women ( 21 high body-dissatisfied ( hbd ) and 21 low body-dissatisfied ( lbd ) ) , were confronted with their own body during four 5-min trials in which participants were instructed to focus their attention on different parts of their body under standardized conditions . emotional and cognitive measures were taken after each exposure trial . heart rate ( hr ) and skin conductance ( sc ) were recorded continuously . hbd women experienced more negative emotions and cognitions following body exposure compared to lbd women but , conversely , showed a reduced physiological reaction in terms of hr and sc . in both groups greater physiological responses were observed looking at the thighs , buttocks , and abdomen . extent of negative emotions and cognitions were positively associated with hr and / or sc in lbd women but no associations were observed in hbd women . the dissociation between self-report and psychophysiological measures in hbd women supports the existence of a passive-behavioral inhibited coping style in hbd women and suggests deficiencies in the generation of physiological correlates of emotion related to body dissatisfaction .
pdh45 overexpressing transgenic tobacco and rice plants provide salinity stress tolerance via less sodium accumulation . <eos> salinity stress negatively affects the crop productivity worldwide , including that of rice . coping with these losses is a major concern for all countries . the pea dna helicase , pdh45 is a unique member of helicase family involved in the salinity stress tolerance . however , the exact mechanism of the pdh45 in salinity stress tolerance is yet to be established . therefore , the present study was conducted to investigate the mechanism of pdh45-mediated salinity stress tolerance in transgenic tobacco and rice lines along with wild type ( wt ) plants using corona green dye based sodium localization in root and shoot sections . the results showed that under salinity stress root and shoot of pdh45 overexpressing transgenic tobacco and rice accumulated less sodium ( na ( + ) ) as compared to their respective wt . the present study also reports salinity tolerant ( fl478 ) and salinity susceptible ( pusa-44 ) varieties of rice accumulated lowest and highest na ( + ) level , respectively . all the varieties and transgenic lines of rice accumulate differential na ( + ) ions in root and shoot . however , roots accumulate high na ( + ) as compared to the shoots in both tobacco and rice transgenic lines suggesting that the na ( + ) transport in shoot is somehow inhibited . it is proposed that the pdh45 is probably involved in the deposition of apoplastic hydrophobic barriers and consequently inhibit na ( + ) transport to shoot and therefore confers salinity stress tolerance to pdh45 overexpressing transgenic lines . this study concludes that tobacco ( dicot ) and rice ( monocot ) transgenic plants probably share common salinity tolerance mechanism mediated by pdh45 gene .
tissue distribution and residue depletion of metronidazole in rainbow trout ( oncorhynchus mykiss ) . <eos> tissue distribution and residue depletion of metronidazole ( mnz ) was studied in rainbow trout ( oncorhynchus mykiss ) following oral administration of mnz in feed at the average dose of 25 mg kg ( -1 ) body weight day ( -1 ) for 7 days at 11 ± 2°c . the mnz concentration in feed was 0.25 % while daily feed intake was 1 % of body weight . the concentrations of mnz and its main metabolite , hydroxymetronidazole ( mnzoh ) , in fish tissues were determined by lc-ms / ms . the drug was well distributed in tissues with maximum concentrations on day 1 post-administration . at this time , the mean mnz concentrations in muscle , skin , kidney , liver and gill were 14,999 , 20,269 , 15,070 , 10,102 and 16,467 µg kg ( -1 ) respectively . mnz was converted into mnzoh with the ratio of mnzoh : mnz up to 7 % in all fish tissues throughout the withdrawal period . this shows that mnz itself is the main residue in rainbow trout . mnz was detected at the level close to the decision limit ( 0.20 µg kg ( -1 ) ) in muscle , skin and muscle with adhering skin up to 42 days , while in kidney , liver and gill it was up to 28 days post-administration . mnzoh was eliminated more rapidly from fish tissues and it was present in muscle alone up to 21 days . the elimination half-lives of mnz and mnzoh in rainbow trout tissues were 1.83-2.53 and 1.24-2.12 days , respectively . when muscle without skin was analysed , higher mnz and mnzoh concentrations were detected , and for a longer period of time , than in muscle with adhering skin . thus muscle alone could be more appropriate for the effective residue control of mnz in rainbow trout . for the same reason , it is also essential to ensure direct cooling immediately after sampling , since mnz and its metabolite degrade in fish muscle and skin stored in non-freezing conditions .
early reprogramming regulators identified by prospective isolation and mass cytometry . <eos> in the context of most induced pluripotent stem ( ips ) cell reprogramming methods , heterogeneous populations of non-productive and staggered productive intermediates arise at different reprogramming time points . despite recent reports claiming substantially increased reprogramming efficiencies using genetically modified donor cells , prospectively isolating distinct reprogramming intermediates remains an important goal to decipher reprogramming mechanisms . previous attempts to identify surface markers of intermediate cell populations were based on the assumption that , during reprogramming , cells progressively lose donor cell identity and gradually acquire ips cell properties . here we report that ips cell and epithelial markers , such as ssea1 and epcam , respectively , are not predictive of reprogramming during early phases . instead , in a systematic functional surface marker screen , we find that early reprogramming-prone cells express a unique set of surface markers , including cd73 , cd49d and cd200 , that are absent in both fibroblasts and ips cells . single-cell mass cytometry and prospective isolation show that these distinct intermediates are transient and bridge the gap between donor cell silencing and pluripotency marker acquisition during the early , presumably stochastic , reprogramming phase . expression profiling reveals early upregulation of the transcriptional regulators nr0b1 and etv5 in this reprogramming state , preceding activation of key pluripotency regulators such as rex1 ( also known as zfp42 ) , dppa2 , nanog and sox2 . both factors are required for the generation of the early intermediate state and fully reprogrammed ips cells , and thus represent some of the earliest known regulators of ips cell induction . our study deconvolutes the first steps in a hierarchical series of events that lead to pluripotency acquisition .
the evolutionary history of lethal metastatic prostate cancer . <eos> cancers emerge from an ongoing darwinian evolutionary process , often leading to multiple competing subclones within a single primary tumour . this evolutionary process culminates in the formation of metastases , which is the cause of 90 % of cancer-related deaths . however , despite its clinical importance , little is known about the principles governing the dissemination of cancer cells to distant organs . although the hypothesis that each metastasis originates from a single tumour cell is generally supported , recent studies using mouse models of cancer demonstrated the existence of polyclonal seeding from and interclonal cooperation between multiple subclones . here we sought definitive evidence for the existence of polyclonal seeding in human malignancy and to establish the clonal relationship among different metastases in the context of androgen-deprived metastatic prostate cancer . using whole-genome sequencing , we characterized multiple metastases arising from prostate tumours in ten patients . integrated analyses of subclonal architecture revealed the patterns of metastatic spread in unprecedented detail . metastasis-to-metastasis spread was found to be common , either through de novo monoclonal seeding of daughter metastases or , in five cases , through the transfer of multiple tumour clones between metastatic sites . lesions affecting tumour suppressor genes usually occur as single events , whereas mutations in genes involved in androgen receptor signalling commonly involve multiple , convergent events in different metastases . our results elucidate in detail the complex patterns of metastatic spread and further our understanding of the development of resistance to androgen-deprivation therapy in prostate cancer .
new cosmogenic burial ages for sterkfontein member 2 australopithecus and member 5 oldowan . <eos> the cave infills at sterkfontein contain one of the richest assemblages of australopithecus fossils in the world , including the nearly complete skeleton stw 573 ( 'little foot ' ) in its lower section , as well as early stone tools in higher sections . however , the chronology of the site remains controversial owing to the complex history of cave infilling . much of the existing chronology based on uranium-lead dating and palaeomagnetic stratigraphy has recently been called into question by the recognition that dated flowstones fill cavities formed within previously cemented breccias and therefore do not form a stratigraphic sequence . earlier dating with cosmogenic nuclides suffered a high degree of uncertainty and has been questioned on grounds of sediment reworking . here we use isochron burial dating with cosmogenic aluminium-26 and beryllium-10 to show that the breccia containing stw 573 did not undergo significant reworking , and that it was deposited 3.67 ± 0.16 million years ago , far earlier than the 2.2 million year flowstones found within it . the skeleton is thus coeval with early australopithecus afarensis in eastern africa . we also date the earliest stone tools at sterkfontein to 2.18 ± 0.21 million years ago , placing them in the oldowan at a time similar to that found elsewhere in south africa at swartkans and wonderwerk .
corrigendum : deterministic direct reprogramming of somatic cells to pluripotency . <eos> nature 502 , 65–70 ( 2013 ) ; doi:10 . 1038 / nature12587 in this article , the reduced representation bisulphite sequencing ( rrbs ) data obtained and analysed were not initially uploaded to the gene expression omnibus ( geo ) record , but can now be found under accession number gse64115 , within the gse49767 super series . furthermore , gene expression data for two samples ( mbd3 + / + embryonic stem cells and mbd3 + / + mouse embryonic fibroblasts ( mefs ) after 8 days on doxycycline ( dox ) ) were generated previously by our group1 and deposited in the geo under accession numbers gsm874650 and gsm874654 . further analysis of this data set was included in figs 3a , 5c and extended data fig . 8a , c of this article . also , in fig . 5c and extended data fig 8c of this article , the ‘ mbd3 + / + mef + 8 day dox ’ sample was inadvertently mislabelled as ‘ mbd3 + / + mef + 11 day dox ’ . this change does not influence the conclusions of the manuscript . in addition , further details on the experimental settings used to generate the data in the gse49766 series reported in this article ( under the gse49767 super series ) have been added to the geo website . it now states that in fig . 3a and extended data figs 5 and 8 , out of 20 independent clonal series generated in our study carrying either the gof18 δpe-oct4-gfp transgenic reporter ( addgene plasmid 52382 ) or the complete gof18 oct4-gfp transgenic reporter ( addgene plasmid 60527 ) , the clonal series selected for genomic analysis included an mbd3 + / + clone that carries the gof18 δpe-oct4-gfp transgenic reporter , and mbd3flox / − and mbd3− / − cells that carry the gof18 oct4-gfp transgenic reporter ( complete oct4 enhancer region with distal and proximal enhancer elements ) . these reporters can be identified when analysing the oct4 locus in genomic dna input datasets . as we do not use oct4–gfp or any other selection for sorting cells before conducting genomic experiments , the difference in transgene reporters would not influence the interpretation of our genomic analysis data in any way . in these genomics studies , the endogenous nanog and oct4 loci are not manipulated and are identical between all cell lines because the oct4–gfp reporters were introduced via random transgenesis and validated for specificity . notably , for the mouse induced pluripotent stem ( ips ) cell efficiency results presented in our article ( for example , in figs 1 and 2 and supplementary videos 1–4 ) , cell lines carried the matched nanog–gfp knock-in reporter or oct4–gfp transgenic reporter ( containing both distal and proximal enhancer elements as delineated in extended data fig . 3a ) . thus , all ips cell efficiency and kinetic comparisons were conducted by using matched and validated pluripotency reporter systems . download references
corrigendum : derivation of novel human ground state naive pluripotent stem cells . <eos> nature 504 , 282–286 ( 2013 ) ; doi:10 . 1038 / nature12745 the reduced representation bisulphite sequencing ( rrbs ) data generated and analysed in this letter were not originally uploaded to the gene expression omnibus ( geo ) , but can now be found under accession number gse52617 ( within the gse52824 super series ) . as can be seen in this rrbs data , mouse naive pluripotent cells expanded for an extended period ( that is , 90 days ) in naive 2i / lif ( inhibition of erk1 / 2 and gsk3β signalling plus leukaemia inhibitory factor ) ) conditions , globally lose dna imprinting .
metabolism : growth in the fat lane . <eos> the formation of blood vessels requires the migration and proliferation of a vascular cell type called endothelial cells . most cells assimilate the biomass and energy required for proliferation by converting abundant carbon sources such as sugars and amino acids into macromolecular building blocks . but on page 192 of this issue , schoors et al . 1 report that the oxidation of fatty acids to acetyl-coa molecules generates an unexpected carbon source that is required in endothelial cells to produce nucleotides for dna synthesis . blocking fatty-acid oxidation suppresses endothelial-cell proliferation and protects mice from a common form of vision loss called retinopathy of prematurity , which is caused by uncontrolled blood-vessel formation . intermediary metabolism — the process by which cells produce and consume energy — is akin to a network of roads that facilitate traffic flow . the overall function of the network relies on a finite set of major intersections at which pathways meet , before diverging to feed sub-networks . acetyl-coa is positioned at one of the most complex of these intersections . this metabolite is produced from the degradation of carbohydrates , lipids and proteins , and feeds carbon into the tricarboxylic acid cycle , a major hub for both energy formation and macromolecular synthesis . furthermore , because acetyl-coa is the substrate for acetylation , a molecular modification to dna-associated proteins that is typically associated with active transcription , it is intimately linked with gene expression and the decision to enter a proliferative state2 , 3 , thereby tethering intermediary metabolism to cell function . during angiogenesis ( the formation of blood vessels ) , endothelial cells respond to extracellular signals by activating a complex program of proliferation and migration . the energy sources in angiogenic endothelial cells have been characterized4 , but the sources of acetyl-coa , and their role in angiogenesis , have remained unknown . in some energetically demanding tissues , such as the heart and skeletal muscle , oxidation of long-chain fatty acids provides a rich source of acetyl-coa . this pathway involves a repeating sequence of reactions in organelles called mitochondria , with each round generating reducing equivalents to produce energy and liberating two carbons from the fatty acid as acetyl-coa . to study the role of fatty-acid oxidation ( fao ) in the endothelial cells of mice , schoors et al . inactivated carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1a ( cpt1a ) , an enzyme required for mitochondria to import long-chain fatty acids . this rendered endothelial cells unable to proliferate , impairing vessel sprouting and angiogenesis both in cultured cells and in the mouse retina . surprisingly , despite the well-known role of fao in energy production , the authors found that the amount of energy generated by endothelial cells was not altered when cpt1a was absent . instead , several metabolites produced from acetyl-coa became depleted , particularly deoxyribonucleotide triphosphates ( dntps ) , the building blocks for dna . consistent with a specific role for fao in supporting dna synthesis , cpt1a loss did not impair the production of either proteins or rna . furthermore , providing endothelial cells with dntps or acetate , an acetyl-coa precursor , completely reversed the effects of cpt1a loss on proliferation . endothelial cells were unusual in this respect ; most other proliferating cells , including cancer cell lines , did not use fatty acids as a major carbon source for dna synthesis . these findings are of interest for several reasons . first , the requirement for fao in supporting dna synthesis would have been difficult to predict on the basis of existing work in proliferative-cell metabolism . research in cancer-cell metabolism5 has emphasized the role of glucose and glutamine in feeding the acetyl-coa pool during growth , and recent work6 suggests that acetate is also a source of acetyl-coa in tumours . but even though some tumours require fao to survive7 , the fact that fao provides carbon for dna synthesis was unexpected . second , the work strikingly demonstrates divergent metabolic requirements for the two major activities of endothelial cells during angiogenesis : migration and proliferation ( fig . 1 ) . endothelial cells that lack cpt1a fail to proliferate normally , but their migration is unperturbed . thus , fao has a more specialized role in endothelial cells than does glucose metabolism , which these authors previously demonstrated was required for both migration and proliferation4 . it is to be hoped that schoors and colleagues ' study will stimulate more work to understand this unusual form of metabolic specialization . given the availability of multiple carbon sources for acetyl-coa and the tricarboxylic acid cycle , it is intriguing that endothelial cells can not compensate for cpt1a loss . does fao establish a metabolically distinct acetyl-coa pool that is preferentially channelled towards dntp synthesis ? additional sophisticated metabolic flux studies , similar to those the authors perform in the paper , might help to answer this question . an alternative , but not mutually exclusive , explanation is that fao provides metabolic benefits beyond supplying the cell with carbon . a striking finding from the paper is that cpt1a loss reduces dntp levels without affecting the precursors of rna , ribonucleotide triphosphates ( rntps ) , perhaps providing a clue to the exquisite requirement of these cells for fao . converting rntps to dntps requires reducing equivalents , which are produced in abundance by fao . in other models of cell proliferation , conditions that stimulate fao at the expense of fatty-acid synthesis improve the overall availability of reducing equivalents8 . it is therefore possible that subtle redox changes contribute to the selective depletion of dntps in endothelial cells lacking cpt1a . the metabolic dependency unveiled by this study has therapeutic potential for diseases that are associated with abnormal endothelial-cell proliferation . the authors demonstrate that systemic fao blockade with a chemical inhibitor alleviates excessive angiogenesis in a mouse model of retinopathy of prematurity . this disease affects more than 50 % of newborn babies with extremely low birth weights worldwide , and is a major source of long-term impairment of visual function . it will be interesting and important to determine whether other forms of abnormal angiogenesis , including the neovascularization of tumours , also require fao . download references
in vivo genome editing using staphylococcus aureus cas9 . <eos> the rna-guided endonuclease cas9 has emerged as a versatile genome-editing platform . however , the size of the commonly used cas9 from streptococcus pyogenes ( spcas9 ) limits its utility for basic research and therapeutic applications that use the highly versatile adeno-associated virus ( aav ) delivery vehicle . here , we characterize six smaller cas9 orthologues and show that cas9 from staphylococcus aureus ( sacas9 ) can edit the genome with efficiencies similar to those of spcas9 , while being more than 1 kilobase shorter . we packaged sacas9 and its single guide rna expression cassette into a single aav vector and targeted the cholesterol regulatory gene pcsk9 in the mouse liver . within one week of injection , we observed > 40 % gene modification , accompanied by significant reductions in serum pcsk9 and total cholesterol levels . we further assess the genome-wide targeting specificity of sacas9 and spcas9 using bless , and demonstrate that sacas9-mediated in vivo genome editing has the potential to be efficient and specific .
fatty acid carbon is essential for dntp synthesis in endothelial cells . <eos> the metabolism of endothelial cells during vessel sprouting remains poorly studied . here we report that endothelial loss of cpt1a , a rate-limiting enzyme of fatty acid oxidation ( fao ) , causes vascular sprouting defects due to impaired proliferation , not migration , of human and murine endothelial cells . reduction of fao in endothelial cells did not cause energy depletion or disturb redox homeostasis , but impaired de novo nucleotide synthesis for dna replication . isotope labelling studies in control endothelial cells showed that fatty acid carbons substantially replenished the krebs cycle , and were incorporated into aspartate ( a nucleotide precursor ) , uridine monophosphate ( a precursor of pyrimidine nucleoside triphosphates ) and dna . cpt1a silencing reduced these processes and depleted endothelial cell stores of aspartate and deoxyribonucleoside triphosphates . acetate ( metabolized to acetyl-coa , thereby substituting for the depleted fao-derived acetyl-coa ) or a nucleoside mix rescued the phenotype of cpt1a-silenced endothelial cells . finally , cpt1 blockade inhibited pathological ocular angiogenesis in mice , suggesting a novel strategy for blocking angiogenesis .
comparing and contrasting three cultural food customs from nigeria and analyzing the nutrient content of diets from these cultures with the aim of proffering nutritional intervention . <eos> nigeria is a multicultural country with a diverse cultural food . most nigerians ' cultural diet is based on staple food accompanied by stew . in the south west and eastern region ( where yorubas and igbos are the dominant ethnic groups ) , staple foods are yam and cassava by-product ( garri , fufu and lafun ) with vegetables prepared as stew , often over cooked , thereby losing essential micronutrients . in northern nigeria ( where the hausas and fulanis are the dominant ethnic groups ) , grains such as sorghum , millet form the main diet ; these are served with palm oil based soup made with tomatoes and okra . meat is sometimes added . among the hausas , meat is usually reserved for special occasions . the various types of malnutrition prevalent in developing countries such as nigeria are iron deficiency anaemia ( id / a ) , protein-energy malnutrition ( pem ) , vitamin a deficiency ( vad ) , iodine deficiency disorder ( idd ) . the proposed long term measure by the federal government of nigeria for the resolution of these various types of malnutrition is dietary diversification . a review of the literature on nigerian cultural diets identified gaps in knowledge with respect to the nutritional values of nigerian ethnic diets .
the rab gtpase raba1e localizes to the cell plate and shows distinct subcellular behavior from raba2a under endosidin 7 treatment . <eos> cytokinesis in plants requires the activity of rab gtpases to regulate vesicle-mediated contribution of material to the developing cell plate . while some plant rab gtpases have been shown to be involved in cell plate formation , many still await functional assignment . here , we report cell plate localization for yfp-raba1e in arabidopsis thaliana and use the cytokinesis inhibitor endosidin 7 to provide a detailed description of its localization compared to yfp-raba2a . differences between yfp-raba2a and yfp-raba1e were observed in late-stage cell plates under dmso control treatment , and became more apparent under endosidin 7 treatment . taken together , our results suggest that individual rab gtpases might make different contributions to cell plate formation and further demonstrates the utility of es7 probe to dissect them .
different analytical procedures in the studies of organic residues in archaeological ceramic samples with the use of gas chromatography-mass spectrometry . <eos> the analysis of the composition of organic residues present in pottery is an important source of information for historians and archaeologists . the chemical characterisation of the materials provides information on diets , habits , technologies and an original use of the vessels . this review presents the problem of analytical studies of archaeological materials with a special emphasis put on organic residues . current methods used in the determination of different organic compounds in archaeological ceramics are presented . particular attention is paid to the procedures of analysis of archaeological ceramic samples used before gas chromatography-mass spectrometry . advantages and disadvantages of different extraction methods and application of proper quality assurance / quality control procedures are discussed .
a novel werner syndrome mutation : pharmacological treatment by read-through of nonsense mutations and epigenetic therapies . <eos> werner syndrome ( ws ) is a rare inherited disease characterized by premature aging and increased propensity for cancer . mutations in the wrn gene can be of several types , including nonsense mutations , leading to a truncated protein form . wrn is a recq family member with both helicase and exonuclease activities , and it participates in several cell metabolic pathways , including dna replication , dna repair , and telomere maintenance . here , we reported a novel homozygous ws mutation ( c.3767 c > g ) in 2 argentinian brothers , which resulted in a stop codon and a truncated protein ( p.s1256x ) . we also observed increased wrn promoter methylation in the cells of patients and decreased messenger wrn rna ( wrn mrna ) expression . finally , we showed that the read-through of nonsense mutation pharmacologic treatment with both aminoglycosides ( ags ) and ataluren ( ptc-124 ) in these cells restores full-length protein expression and wrn functionality .
3-mcpd : a worldwide problem of food chemistry . <eos> 3-mcpd is a heat-induced food contaminant which has been widely investigated for decades . this paper presents an overview of current knowledge about 3-mcpd including its formation routes , occurrence in various foodstuffs , analytical approach , toxicological aspects and future research perspectives . so far 3-mcpd was determined in its free and bound form in thermally-treated foods , edible oils and fats , and infant foods including human breast milk . infant foods and human breast milk were highlighted in this paper as a serious problem due to the fact that they can pose a potential hazard for infants . the analytical approach of 3-mcpd determination have been modified for over a decade . nowadays the method based on determining the derivative of this compound by using gc-ms is widely used . however there is still a big need for developing new methods which would produce repeatable results . some of the toxicological aspects associated with 3-mcpd still remain unknown . a number of studies on carcinogenicity and genotoxicity of 3-mcpd were carried out on rodents however no clinical studies on humans have been reported so far . also , both detrimental effect on kidneys and antifertility activity have been widely reported . moreover , the knowledge about 3-mcpd absorption into body fluids and tissues , and its metabolic pathways is based on sometimes conflicting data derived from different studies . in conclusion , although a lot of research was carried out on the topic of 3-mcpd , there is still a need for further research in this area .
a process optimization study on ultrasonic extraction of paclitaxel from taxus cuspidata . <eos> this study aimed to improve the extraction rate of paclitaxel from taxus cuspidate in order to determine the most effective combination of ultrasonic extraction and tlc-uv rapid separation method . the study was performed using the box-behnken test design to conduct single factor experiments using ultrasonic extraction of paclitaxel from taxus cuspidate . the study showed ethanol to be the best extraction solvent . when mixed with dichloromethane ( 1:1 ) , the ratio of material to liquid was 1:50 when using an ultrasonic time of 1 hour at a power of 200 w. the correction coefficient k , for the separation and detection of paclitaxel using the tlc-uv spectrophotometric method was 0.009152. multi-factor experiments determined the effect of the rate of liquid to material ( x1 ) , ultrasonic time ( x2 ) , ultrasonic power ( x3 ) on extraction using extraction volume as the dependent variable . response surface analysis allowed a regression equation to be obtained and with the optimal conditions for extraction when the rate of liquid to material was 53 . 23 ml / g with an ultrasonic time of 1.11 hours and an ultrasonic power of 207 . 88 w. using these parameters , the average amount of extracted paclitaxel was about 130 . 576 µg / g which was significantly better than other extraction methods .
characterization of phospho- ( tyrosine ) -mimetic calmodulin mutants . <eos> calmodulin ( cam ) phosphorylated at different serine / threonine and tyrosine residues is known to exert differential regulatory effects on a variety of cam-binding enzymes as compared to non-phosphorylated cam . in this report we describe the preparation and characterization of a series of phospho- ( y ) -mimetic cam mutants in which either one or the two tyrosine residues present in cam ( y99 and y138 ) were substituted to aspartic acid or glutamic acid . it was expected that the negative charge of the respective carboxyl group of these amino acids mimics the negative charge of phosphate and reproduce the effects that distinct phospho- ( y ) -cam species may have on target proteins . we describe some physicochemical properties of these cam mutants as compared to wild type cam , after their expression in escherichia coli and purification to homogeneity , including : i ) changes in their electrophoretic mobility in the absence and presence of ca2 + ; ii ) ultraviolet ( uv ) light absorption spectra , far- and near-uv circular dichroism data ; iii ) thermal stability in the absence and presence of ca2 + ; and iv ) tb3 + -emitted fluorescence upon tyrosine excitation . we also describe some biochemical properties of these cam mutants , such as their differential phosphorylation by the tyrosine kinase c-src , and their action as compared to wild type cam , on the activity of two cam-dependent enzymes : cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase 1 ( pde1 ) and endothelial nitric oxide synthase ( enos ) assayed in vitro .
the relationship between adolescents ' pain catastrophizing and attention bias to pain faces is moderated by attention control . <eos> this study considered the attentional functioning of adolescents with varying levels of pain catastrophizing . specifically , we investigated the relationship between pain catastrophizing and attention bias to pain facial expressions . furthermore , drawing on dual process models in the context of pain , we investigated the moderating role of attention control on this relationship . adolescents ( n = 73 ; age , 16-18 years ) performed a dot-probe task in which facial expressions of pain and neutral expressions were presented for 100 milliseconds and 1250 milliseconds . participants also completed self-report pain catastrophizing and attention control measures . we found that although there was no main effect of pain catastrophizing on attention bias towards pain faces , attention control did significantly moderate this relationship . further analysis revealed that lower levels of attention control were significantly associated with increasing attentional vigilance towards pain faces only within high catastrophizing adolescents . in addition , we found that poorer attention control was related to increased attention bias for pain faces ( regardless of pain catastrophizing level ) when these faces were presented for relatively longer durations ( ie , 1250 milliseconds ) but not for short durations ( ie , 100 milliseconds ) . this study supports a dual process model of attentional processes in pain , thus replicating previous findings within the psychopathology literature but extending them to the study of pain . theoretical and clinical implications of our findings are discussed .
indium tin oxide-free transparent conductive electrode for gan-based ultraviolet light-emitting diodes . <eos> transparent conducting electrodes are important components of highly efficient ultraviolet light-emitting diodes ( uv leds ) . indium tin oxide ( ito ) is commonly used to form a current spreading layer , but its uv-range optical transparency is limited with a low sheet resistance . we demonstrate a simple solution-based coating technique to obtain large-area , highly uniform , and conductive silver-nanowire-based electrodes that exhibit uv-range optical transparency better than that of ito for the same sheet resistance . the uv leds fabricated using this current spreading layer showed improved optical power emission as well as improvement in electrical properties .
malnutrition in south asia - a critical reappraisal . <eos> malnutrition continues to be a major public health challenge especially in south asian developing countries . the aim of the present review is to spotlight the magnitude of the prevalence of malnutrition and its dynamics in south asian region and to suggest potential approaches for the prevention and control of this issue of public health significance . an extensive review of literature , covering malnutrition and its determinants , health and economic consequences and pragmatic preventive strategies was performed on computer based bibliographic databases ( pubmed , google scholar , scopus , medline and sciencedirect . com ) to retrieve abstracts and full texts for india , pakistan , bangladesh , sri lanka and nepal . all relevant titles and abstracts were examined and evaluated for malnutrition and its prevalence in south asia . the results revealed malnutrition to be a major public health problem and a potential cause of high disease burden and mortality in south asia . compelling evidence suggests malnutrition to be the leading cause of stunting , wasting and underweight with drastic economic consequences among vulnerable populations . reduced cognitive performance and low productivity have also been associated with micronutrients malnutrition . suboptimal breastfeeding , inadequate food supply , micronutrient deficiencies , low household income , poor health care system , increased healthcare costs , illiteracy , unhygienic and substandard living , inappropriate child 's care and the caregiver , food insecurity and on top of that vicious cycle of poverty , have been recognized as principal indicators for growing malnutrition prevalence in south asia . global organizations , local governments , program managers , ngos , academia , industry in particular and the society at large need to take up the challenge to completely confiscate malnutrition from the region for economic prosperity and a healthier future .
ethanolamine oleate versus botulinum toxin in the treatment of idiopathic achalasia . <eos> botulinum toxin ( bt ) injection reduces lower esophageal sphincter pressure and alleviates symptoms in idiopathic achalasia ( ia ) . ethanolamine oleate ( eo ) has also been introduced for the treatment of ia . we compared the long-term efficacy of bt and eo injections in the treatment of ia . a total of 189 ia patients were evaluated prospectively , of whom 21 were unwilling to undergo or were poor candidates for pneumatic balloon dilation and heller myotomy and were enrolled in the study . eleven patients were treated by bt , and 10 by eo injections . patients were followed up by achalasia symptom score ( ass ) , timed barium esophagogram ( tbe ) , and high-resolution manometry at baseline and post-treatment . a good initial response was defined as a decrease in ass to 4 or less , and a reduction in barium column height and volume in tbe by > 50 % . all 10 eo group patients and 10 of 11 bt group patients showed a good initial response . four eo group relapsers and 6 bt group relapsers were managed effectively by re-injections . mean duration of follow up was 27 . 38 months . on completion of the study , a sustained good response was seen in 9 and 6 patients in eo and bt groups , respectively ( p = 0.149 ) . this study revealed that bt and eo have comparable efficacy in the treatment of ia . however , the cost of eo is about 2 times lower than bt .
risk of suicide among us military service members following operation enduring freedom or operation iraqi freedom deployment and separation from the us military . <eos> a pressing question in military suicide prevention research is whether deployment in support of operation enduring freedom or operation iraqi freedom relates to suicide risk . prior smaller studies report differing results and often have not included suicides that occurred after separation from military service . to examine the association between deployment and suicide among all 3.9 million us military personnel who served during operation enduring freedom or operation iraqi freedom , including suicides that occurred after separation . this retrospective cohort design used administrative data to identify dates of deployment for all service members ( october 7 , 2001 , to december 31 , 2007 ) and suicide data ( october 7 , 2001 , to december 31 , 2009 ) to estimate rates of suicide-specific mortality . hazard ratios were estimated from time-dependent cox proportional hazards regression models to compare deployed service members with those who did not deploy . suicide mortality from the department of defense medical mortality registry and the national death index . deployment was not associated with the rate of suicide ( hazard ratio , 0.96 ; 99 % ci , 0.87-1.05 ) . there was an increased rate of suicide associated with separation from military service ( hazard ratio , 1.63 ; 99 % ci , 1.50-1.77 ) , regardless of whether service members had deployed or not . rates of suicide were also elevated for service members who separated with less than 4 years of military service or who did not separate with an honorable discharge . findings do not support an association between deployment and suicide mortality in this cohort . early military separation ( < 4 years ) and discharge that is not honorable were suicide risk factors .
monounsaturated fatty acids-rich diets in hypercholesterolemic-growing rats . <eos> the effects of replacing dietary saturated fat by different monounsaturated fatty acid ( ω-9mufa ) sources on serum lipids , body fat and bone in growing hypercholesterolemic rats were studied . rats received one of the six different diets : ain-93g ( control , c ) ; extra virgin olive oil ( oo ) + c ; high-oleic sunflower oil ( hoso ) + c or atherogenic diet ( at ) for 8 weeks ; the remaining two groups received at for 3 weeks and then , the saturated fat was replaced by an oil mixture of soybean oil added with oo or hoso for 5 weeks . rats consuming mufa-rich diets showed the highest body fat , hepatic index and epididymal , intestinal and perirenal fat , and triglycerides . t-chol and non-hdl-chol were increased in hoso rats but decreased in oo rats . bone mineral content and density were higher in both oo and hoso groups than in at rats . this study casts caution to the generalization of the benefits of mufa for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia .
validation of a food frequency questionnaire for use in italian adults living in sicily . <eos> the objective of this study was to validate two interviewer-led food frequency questionnaires ( ffqs ) of very different lengths : a medium-length ffq ( medium-ffq ) of 36 items and a short-length ffq ( short-ffq ) of 18 items , intending to measure levels of intakes in a local population . both ffqs were validated against intakes derived from a 3-day dietary record ( 3-day dr ) . sixty-five non-diabetic adults with no known cardiovascular , renal or other systemic diseases were included . high correlation coefficients between the ffq and the 3-day dr ( 0.45-0.73 ) were observed for energy intake , carbohydrates and lipid and protein intake . bland-altman plots showed good agreement between the methods . low ( 0.26-0.37 ) correlation coefficients of the different nutrient intakes obtained with the short-ffq and the 3-day dr were observed , with the exception of alcohol intake ( rho = 0.49 ) . this study showed promising evidence for the use of a medium-ffq as a potentially useful tool for investigating the relationship between habitual diet and diseases in clinical and research settings .
impact of probiotics during weaning on the metabolic and inflammatory profile : follow-up at school age . <eos> we hypothesised that feeding the probiotic lactobacillus paracasei ssp . paracasei f19 ( lf19 ) ( dep . nr lmg p-17806 ) during weaning would program the metabolic and inflammatory profile and studied its association with previously assessed body composition . in a double-blind , placebo-controlled trial , 179 infants were randomised to daily feeding of cereals with or without lf19 10 ( 8 ) cfu from 4 to 13 months of age . at age 8-9 years , 120 children were re-assessed . using high-sensitivity multiplex immunoassay technology and elisa , we found that overweight / obese children had increased plasma c-peptide , plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 , leptin and serum high-sensitivity c-reactive protein ( hscrp ) after overnight fasting compared with normal weight children , independently of lf19 . after excluding the obese , leptin and hscrp were still increased , revealing an aberrant metabolic and inflammatory state already in overweight , pre-pubertal children . higher body mass index z-score , sagittal abdominal diameter , truncal and total body fat % were associated with an aberrant metabolic and inflammatory profile , emphasising the need for early prevention strategies although no programming effect of lf19 was observed .
black soybean extract reduces fatty acid contents in subcutaneous , but not in visceral adipose triglyceride in high-fat fed rats . <eos> it is known that black soybean ( bs ) extract , rich in polyphenols , has beneficial effects against obesity , inflammation and insulin resistance . however , detailed effects of bs on lipid metabolism have not been documented well . in the present study , we compared fatty acid composition in visceral and subcutaneous adipose tissues of high-fat fed ( hff ) rats and bs administered hff rats . black soybean administration for 6 weeks influenced neither body nor adipose tissue weights , blood glucose , plasma insulin levels , or insulin sensitivity . however , bs reduced several saturated ( c14:0 and c16:0 ) , monounsaturated ( c14:1n-5 and c18:1n-9 ) and n-6 polyunsaturated ( c18:2n-6 , c20:3n-6 , c20:4n-6 and c22:4n-6 ) fatty acid contents in subcutaneous fat without any change in n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid contents . no such effect was observed in fatty acid composition in visceral fat . long-chain fatty acids are involved in regulation of inflammation . therefore , those reduced fatty acids may be linked to the effects on suppressing inflammation .
